,section,question_number,answer_number,speaker_name,role,company,content,year,quarter,is_pleasantry,source_pdf,role_normalised
0,presentation,,,Noel Quinn,Group Chief Executive,HSBC,"Thanks, Richard, and good morning in London, good afternoon in Hong Kong . Thank you for joining our first -quarter results call . Georges is going to lead the presentation, but I’d like to make some opening comments. We’ve announced a strong set of Q1 results . We delivered a strong profit performance,  which was spread across all our major geographies . All three global businesses performed well, and cost discipline remained tight . In the first quarter, excluding the gain on SVB UK and the part reversal of the impairment on the potential sale of our Fren ch retail bank, we delivered an annualised return on tangible equity of 19.3% , so our strategy is working. I’m also confident about the future, for two main reasons . First, we have built a good platform for growth . We have a strong balance sheet, broad -based geographic profit generation, a good combination of net interest income and non -net interest income, and a tight grip on costs . This growth potential was evident in the inflow of net new invested assets of $22 billion in the quarter, with a cumulative $93 billion over the last 12 months, which shows that our Wealth strategy is continuing to gain traction, and you have my commitment that we will continue to drive strong performance for the rest of the year, while maintaining cost discipline and investing in growth. The second reason I’m confident is the diversity and connectivity of our geographical footprint, where we have access to markets that are exhibiting good growth and return potential . I’ve seen first -hand the strong economic recoveries underway  in Hong Kong and mainland China . I’ve also visited the Middle East recently, where I saw a strong economy that is well -placed to continue to grow . And the UK economy is also showing good resilience, and our HSBC UK business is performing well. Investing in growth is critical and we saw an opportunity to do that by acquiring SVB UK . For 158 years, HSBC has banked the entrepreneurs who have created today’s industrial base . With the SVB UK acquisition, we have access to more of the entrepreneurs in the techn ology and life sciences sectors who will create the businesses of tomorrow . We believe they’re a natural fit for HSBC and that we’re well and uniquely placed to take them global . You will have seen the recent hires that we’ve taken on in the US in that reg ard, and we’re going to continue to invest to grow this part of the business on a global basis. We announced that the sale of our French retail bank has become less certain, due to significant interest -rate rises in France and the related fair value accou nting treatment impacting the capital position of the purchase . We still believe it’s right to sell the business, but we also have to keep our shareholders’ interests in mind when negotiating revised terms . We are working with the buyer to try and find a s olution, but the uncertainty on deal terms and timing has led us to reverse the impairment. Finally, we made two important announcements today . The first was the resumption of quarterly dividends, with an interim dividend of 10 cents per share, which is t he same level as the last time we paid a first quarterly dividend before Covid . The second was that good, continued capital generation enabled us to announce a share buyback of up to $2 billion . Our AGM on Friday will be an important milestone.  As you kn ow, resolutions have been tabled by shareholders on the strategy and structure of the bank, as well as to fix the dividend . The board has recommended that shareholders vote against resolutions 17 and 18 . I believe our first-quarter results reinforce our re commendations and demonstrate that our current strategy is the fastest and safest way to improve returns. I’ll now hand over to Georges to take you through the numbers.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
1,qa,1.0,,Joseph Dickerson,Analyst,Jefferies,"Good morning, gentlemen . Congrats on a good set of numbers in what wasn’t the easiest environment in Q1 . Just a quick question on the buyback . You’ve been very precise in discussing that you would expect to complete the buyback over three months . Is this something now we can expect to be a regular quarterly event, given the strong capital generation, not to mention Canada completing early next year, or is it going to be slightly more erratic?",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
2,qa,2.0,,Raul Sinha,Analyst,JP Morgan,"Good morning, gents . Thanks very much for taking my questions . Maybe just to follow up on that capital return question, firstly, and then I’ve got another one on asset quality . When we look at your headline capital ratio, it’s very strong and quite a significant tick-up over the last couple of quarters in particular . I guess there  are a few adjusting items in there . Should we exclude the French disposal, let’s say, reversal from the headline ratio ? I guess, if we exclude the share buyback, we get back in your range towards the lower end.  So I guess the question is how much RWA grow th you anticipate the business to require over the next 12 months . Linking to your loan growth outlook as well, I’m just wondering if you could give us some colour on RWA growth expectations there, and that, hopefully, gives us a good idea of how much buybacks we can expect. The second one, again related to how much capital you might be able to generate in the remaining part of the year, your guidance on asset quality still implies quite a significant tick -up in provisions, given your very strong perfo rmance in Q1 . So I guess the question really is, are you guiding us to something specific in terms of the 40 -basis -point provision charge, or is that just an element of conservatism built into your guidance there ? Thank you.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
3,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Just one additional comment from me . You’ll notice on the capital walk that we’ve accrued dividends at 50% of the profit generation in Q1 . And if you do the maths on that, the accrual on dividend is hig her than the 10 cents that you’ve got in the Q1 declared interim dividend . So we’re accruing dividend distribution at a higher rate than the payment of the 10 cents, so that’s just factored into our CET1 ratio as well.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
4,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Manus.  Just on the asset quality of SVB, everything that we’ve seen since we bought the busines s reinforces the view that we had that weekend when we did due diligence.  The book was a good quality book.  We’ve seen no nasty surprises. We did do a bit of mark to market on acquisition accounting , but that was evident to us when we did due diligence tha t weekend.  Georges can give you a little bit more detail on that, but fundamentally the asset quality of the SVB book is as we expected it. The team have done a good job in building that business over the past 14 years.  They’ve got good client relations, a good quality book, and good business development potential.  On the back of that we decided to invest in putting more people on the ground in some of the key markets around the world that have strong technology and life science centres, to take that busin ess model not just to the UK but to take it globally.  We’re investing in that as well.  No nasty surprises on that. In terms of other acquisitions that we may consider or M&A activity, the insurance business is a key component of the wealth proposition tha t we have.  We have a very profitable insurance business in Hong Kong.  It’s a combination of manufacturing and distribution.  The team have done a good job in building out the product line up in Hong Kong over the past few years to put us back into a market -leading position in Hong Kong, and we get access to the full value chain. One of the challenges we’ve often faced in the past is getting full recognition of that value , as a bank shareholder in an insurance manufacturing business.  You can rest assured the economics of that business are very strong and we’ve got a market -leading position.  We obviously , like all businesses , keep the strategy under review, and if we think there’s a better position to take , we’ll take it, but at the moment we’re pleased with th e way the insurance business is performing.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
5,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Getting into some of the maths, we acquired a loan book that is just shy of £6 billion.  That’s about $8 billion.  We’ve acquired $10 billion of RWA s, so if you consider those loans and some of t he additional RWAs on treasury books, operational risk, etc, you kind of land on these numbers.  Manus, we also acquired $1.5 billion of capital after the fair -value adjustments, so you’re talking about effectively a 16% CET1 ratio business that we acquired , so we think it is where it should be.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
6,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"At the end of 2022 the rate sensitivity on the downside 100 basis points scenario was reduced from around $6 billion at the half year to around $4 billion.  That $2 billion reduction, the NII sensitivity reduction of 100 basis points is for about a third of  it, justified by the structural hedges that we started putting in place or that we continued putting in place as of last year.  Two-thirds of it is due to the fact that we’re just at a higher level of rates and therefore we have less rates convexity  on the  downside. If you look into Q1 we have not published a revised rate sensitivity but we continued the trajectory of our structural hedges.  Just as a reminder, structural hedges will reduce somewhat our rate sensitivity, and our target is to take that $4 bi llion in the medium term to circa $3 billion. We are on that journey.  We have certainly not arrived there.  We will be giving you an update at H1.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
7,qa,5.0,,Perlie Mong,Analyst,KBW,"I’ve got two questions.  The first one is obviously the beat was very strong, and a lot of i t comes from non -interest income.  It appears that a lot of it is from Commercial Banking, and maybe some from Global Banking and Markets.  How much of that do you think is sustainable?  Presumably you wouldn’t encourage us to annualise the whole lot, so how much of that do you think is sustainable? Secondly, on the AGM on Friday I guess a lot of the attention will be around the debate you’re having with Ping An.  They obviously recently published an announcement that made some critiques, especially around your cost -income ratio and RoTE . You’ve obviously printed very strong numbers to date, but in some ways you  have guided to a lot of it already, especially around costs.  I’m sure you’ve also been communicating with them anyway, so why do you think those cri tiques were still made?",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
8,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I’ll deal with the second one later.  I’ll as k Georges to deal with the non -NII first, if that’s okay.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
9,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"We expect  many of  you will adjust your full -year numbers to reflect our Q1 outperformance.  That’s a fair assessment, but I’ll caution you not to annualise Q1.  If I just unpack it, the non -NII relating to the funding of our trading activities, $1.4 billion, is fairly reasonable to assume this number will annualise.  The wealth business – obviously with t he outlook improving in wealth - it is fairly reasonable to assume we will see regained traction and bounce back in particular in Hong Kong, whereas for some of the other activities such as the foreign exchange trading up performance I would caution you no t to annualise this number and just to bake it in as a Q1 outcome, and then for Q2, Q3 we will see how they fare.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
10,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"On the wealth performance you said most of the non -NII was C MB and GBM.  I think it’s also fair to say that in WPB the wealth busi ness performed well in Q1.  Its revenue was up 13% in Q1 relative to Q1 last year.  What Georges is saying is I think we’ve seen a recovery taking place in that wealth revenue.  We’re not expecting that to just be a Q1 phenomenon. That is something that will continue in Q2, Q3 and Q4, but it’s still early days to predict whether the 13% is an annual number or it’s higher than that or lower than that.  We don’t expect it to disappear in Q2, Q3 or Q4, so there should be a level of annualisation on that as well in the WPB non -NII line. With respect to the AGM comment, we said for a while that we believe the safest and fastest way to achieve higher returns, better performance, better dividends and capital generation was the existing strategy.  I think the Q1 results  provide a lot of evidence that that is the fact, that that is the best way.  We guided the market over the last 12 months to a 12%+ RoTE . I did emphasise at the year -end that we should focus on the plus, not the 12, and I think you see in Q1, even excludin g the notable items, we’ve done a RoTE  of 19.3%. I would just draw attention to the fact that in that RoTE  of 19.3% there is a tax credit.  That tax credit is not something that will repeat every quarter, but even if you adjust for that it’s still a very h ealthy return on tangible equity.  What we’re focused on is driving performance on behalf of all our shareholders, and we believe doing what we’ve done is the best way to get improved returns and improved performance rather than some more radical corporate restructuring action.  We believe Q1 is strong evidence of that.  Georges, do you just want to clarify the tax situation?",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
11,qa,,4.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"We’ve basically shown $1.9 billion as a tax charge, which is an effective tax rate of 14%.  I just want to caution you  that 3.2% relate s to the provisional gain on SVB, which is a non -taxable item, and another 3.3% relate s to the release of provisions for uncertain tax provisions, which is also a one -off item.  Therefore, if you adjusted for those two we still expect a 20%  ETR guidance for the rest of the year.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
12,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Two good question s. Georges will cover the second one and I’ll cover the first one. We still believe that a sale of the French retail business is the right strategic outcome. That business probably has a stronger future in an other purchaser’s hands, however we have been in discussions for a few weeks now with the current buyer t o try and overcome the challenge they have on their acquisition accounting impact on their capital base.  We’ll continue that dialogue.  We’re hoping we c an reach a mutually agreeable settlement with them on that, but we can’t be guaranteed of that outcome.  We have to consider what is financially the right decision for all shareholders. It’s hopeful that we can reach an agreement but it’s not guaranteed.  In the event we can’t , then I still think we’ll continue to run the business, but I still think over time we wouldn’t see that as a long -term strategic hold, but we’re happy to wait and see what happens thereafter.  We’re very much focused on trying to reach  an agreement with the current buyer to bring that transaction to a close.  That’s the update I have for you on costs.  I’ll hand over to Georges.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
13,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"So just a couple of additional comments from me.  On that reconciliation between the headline reporting number and the cost target, what we’ re trying to do is be very straightforward and not try and bake in what was a CTA last year into the cost base of this year. So we’re adjusting the prior year reported number for the notable CTA last year so that the cost target of 3% is on an ‘apples and apples ’ basis with the cost base of this year, so we’re not looking to take an easy option on that.  We think it’s the right thing to do, but as we say, we’re in 2% against the 3% target in Q1.  And then on SVB, I just want to clarify as well, the SVB busine ss we bought, we acquired a cost base with that, and we acquired a revenue stream, and that revenue stream was in excess of the cost base.  We’ve acquired a positive P&L that was contributing, if I remember correctly, around about $80 to $90 million of PBT.  So although we’ve acquired – the majority of the $300 million  is the acquired cost base of SVB, it is a profitable cost base.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
14,qa,,4.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Andy, just to finish off, we provided a reconciliation on slide 30 to show you the work from reported cost to our cost target, and we will be showing this slide every quarter.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
15,qa,7.0,,Guy Stebbings,Analyst,BNP Paribas,"Morning, everyone.  Thanks for taking questions. One on net interest margin and one back on SVB.  So on NIM, I guess the UK ring -fenced bank did quite a lot of the heavy lifting this quarter, allowing for one basis point of sequential NIM growth . As we look ahead, perhaps that tailwind fades , at least in quantum.  So is that going to make it a tricky thing from here to deliver NIM sustainability , or is the drop  in HBAP and the headwind from deposit mix in particular , likely to fade in your view to allow for some stable NIM backdrop?  And then the second question on SVB.  In addition to the acquired cost base, you flagged the incremental investment spend and plans to build the business outside the UK, so could you talk about associated revenue ambitions and what timeframe you expect to see any notable uplift there?  How big a shift in that $80 to $90 million PBT reference could we see of SVB inside HSBC with that inc remental investment?  Thank you.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
16,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Okay.  Thank you.  I’ll take the second in a moment.  I’ll ask Georges to cover the NIM, please, and UK ring -fenced bank.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
17,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Guy.  So indeed, you did call out the possibility of headwinds in the UK.  Obviously, there may be still one or two rate hikes for which we will be passing most of that to customers through pass -through rate s. And we do see continued headwinds in Hong Kong, with around 1% per month migration into term deposit s, with the m ix now at 25% term deposits across both our entities in Hong Kong.  This being said, we also have tailwinds.  The first one is we still have a strong momentum from Q1, which we are carrying over.  The second tailwind is HIBOR normalisation.  Just for reference , in Hong Kong, HIBOR and Exchange Fund Bills in Q1 were 65 and 35 basis points lower on average than where they were in Q4, and that was a major headwind for us in Q1.  We are seeing now – over the last few weeks, we have been seeing normalisation in those  rates.  If we continue to see normalisation – and just for a reminder, we are about 200 basis points off the equivalent rate in dollars – if we continue to see normalisation, this will provide us material tailwinds in the Hong Kong base.  And the other tailwind is our resilient deposit and loan base.  We continue having stable deposits and loans despite some of the competitive pressures, and we continue to aim for mid -single -digit growth in both in the medium term, which should give us some supportive tailwin ds.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
18,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"So just to reinforce what we said as the full -year results in February, we noted the consensus that was in existence in February, and we said we were not uncomfortable with where consensus was.  We still have that view.  The only adjustment you need to make to NII is for the IFRS 17 adjustment.  Everything else remains, as we said in February, that the guidance that existed at that point in time, we were not uncomfortable with it.  The same is true today. Just adjust for IFRS 17, which is aroun d about a $2 billion adjustment from IFRS 4 to IFRS 17. That’s the only change that needs to be made based on what we’ve given you as an update today. And then on SVB, we recruited over 40 people in the US, to build out our SVB capability in the US. We did not bring a book with them  - purchase a book  - so they will be in build -out mode, so there will be a payback period on that investment.  We think that it is a relatively short payback period based on the quality of people we’ve hired.  We’re looking at o ther geographies around the world.  We think it’s a sensible and modest investment to do that organically, and we’re pretty confident on the payback will be relatively short.  We’ll provide more details once we complete our buildout.  Hopefully by the half -year, we’ll be able to give you more information. So there will be a profit  drag to a degree, probably in the first year or 18 months, but then I think it will be back into proper territory, even on those organic buildout strategies, but we’ll give more of a n update at the half -year. I think strategically, it’s absolutely the right thing to do for the medium term.  This is a sector of the economy that is critical for all geographies and has huge growth potential on revenue.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
19,qa,8.0,,Rob Noble,Analyst,Deutsche Bank,"If we ju st talk about the LCR, it’s relatively low in a European context.  Obviously on a deposit basis, it’s a different structure.  Are you happy running with that level in the medium term, given the uncertainty in the market, and how do you expect the regulation or approach to liquidity to change, given what’s happened in the US?  Thank you.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
20,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So we don’t target LCR.  We are continuing to target medium -term, single -to-mid digit loan growth in our portfolio, and we obviously continue to cherish depos its and continue wanting to attract deposits.  The LCR would be an outcome.  I think insofar as we look at our liquidity management, it’s the high -quality liquid assets ratio that we look at, it’s the cash and cash equivalent within it that we look at.  And i n terms of loans, again, it’s the short end. It’s somewhat subdued and in particular in Hong Kong, in the medium term, some of the bounce bank and some of the trade bounce bank that we’re seeing as well may support that loan growth ambition in the medium t erm.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
21,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I think on the regulation impact, I think we have to wait and see what the various regulators around the world do on regulation, but I think the way I look at it, the primary responsibility for running a prudent balance sheet is on the ma nagement and board of the financial institution.  That’s a responsibility we’ve taken seriously throughout our history.  Our high-quality liquid assets have been a feature of our heritage.  Our high -quality cash and cash equivalents have been a feature of our  heritage for many decades.  We put the primary responsibility of liquidity management on ourselves, and then we’ll see what the regulatory environment does as some of the consequences of some of the recent changes.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
22,qa,9.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"Good morning, Noe l. Good morning, Georges.  I just need to come back to revenues.  Both your net interest income and your non -interest income are performing really well in Q1, and they are annualising at levels that would suggest a pretty material upside to market expectatio ns for both of those lines.  Your net interest income is annualising north of $36 billion on the Q1 number.  Your guide is obviously greater than $34 billion . I appreciate there’s lots of moving parts here, but I guess to be more specific, Noel, in terms of your commentary around consensus at full -year and now, there’s a $1.7 billion gap between where the street is and what you’re guiding for the street at $35.7 billion . It doesn’t actually sound like you see much downside to that consensus number at $35.7 billion, unless there’s something here on term deposit mix.  It feels like there’s a lot of conservatism in that NII guidance, or there’s something I’m missing, so can you help us with that? And then secondly, on the non -interest income, I totally appreciate  your markets business might have over -earned in Q1, but you are also pointing towards a wealth management business that is trending higher, and underlying momentum in your fee business.  You talked about strategic initiatives at full -year that sit behind t hat. To what extent is that revenue number an over -earn, or is this the kind of level that we can expect you to crank out in a year?  Because this is well ahead of what the street is.  Any colour that you can give us there would be helpful.  Thank you.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
23,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Those are two good questions and let me just clarify what I said about what we said in February.  I think you’re right on your maths.  I think if you go back to what we said in February, there was – we talked about $36 billion plus, and when people we re talking about our NII , they were sort of annualising it to about $38 billion , and consensus was around $37 to $37.5 billion , and I think we said that we were comfortable with that.  So I think, if you go back to then, we sort of said, ‘Yes, we’re sort of  comfortable  that c onsensus had a calculation on the ‘plus’ bit of the $36 billion  plus. That put it sort of north of $37 billion.  That was around about consensus back then, and what I’m saying to you now is the only thing you need to adjust for is IFRS 17 , which takes about $2 billion off of that.  So we’re talking about $34 billion plus, and that therefore would put you north of $35 billion.  So I think what we’re saying is – we’re sort of saying the street has probably got NII around about the right place back in February, and we’re saying there’s no need to change what the street is.  You’ve only got to do the mechanical adjustment for IFRS 17. Hopefully that helps, and then Georges, I think, do you want to just come back on the non -NII? Because I think yo u’re right.  There’s elements of our non -NII performance in Q1  that Georges is saying annualise, but some elements  that we are saying it may be unwise to annualise them fully.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
24,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So Aman, if I can unpack the non -NII, some of the outperformance that we’ve seen with regards to the funding of the trading book, where we’ve seen $1.4 billion this quarter against $0.1 billion in quarter one last year, because rates were  zero, but against $1.3 billion quarter four.  So somewhat flat – just slightly up from quarter four.  That number, it is fair to annualise it, given current rate forecast consensus.  Equally, as Noel mentioned earlier, the discussion on wealth growth in NNIA , in wealth – the resumption of activity in Hong Kong in particular bodes well for the future, and I think it is fair to assume that we will see continued performance in wealth.  On the other hand, some of the outperformance in some of the markets activitie s such as foreign exchange trading, which had a record quarter, may not be repeated, and obviously, we may have to look at it quarter by quarter in terms of what business opportunities are there.  And while you can bake in and factor in the results for Q1 outperformance, I would caution you not to annualise that outperformance.  But in general, Aman, if I take a step back, it is a good set of results , and we are confident about the future, and in light of the strong Q1 performance, we will review the guidance  in H1.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
25,qa,11.0,,Martin Leitgeb,Analyst,Goldman Sachs,"Good morning, Noel and Georges.  First of all, congratulations for this good set of results.  I just have one broader question on growth and one follow -up on deposits.  Just looking at the much -improved profitability levels of the group with NII being $2 -3 billion higher per quarter, despite the capacity to scale up growth.  And I was just wondering, if we look into the medium -term or starting 2024, do you see hope for the group to lean more into growth , so the single -digit loan growth could potentially be higher, or should we just think that any increase in profitability could be essentially returned to shareholders, just in terms of the trade -off between opportunity for gr owing more versus shareholder return s? And secondly, with regards to the deposit franchise, I was just wondering if you could comment on the strength of HSBC’s deposit franchise during the quarter.  Have you seen, in  particular , inflows in certain parts of  your footprint  helping  delivering stable deposit s in the quarter?  Also wondering with regards to  deposit migration  – part of moving into time deposits, or whether you have seen any change in trend.  Are we towards the end of that cycle in terms of deposit migration, or could we still go on for another quarter?  Thank you.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
26,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Just one comment from me on growth.  I think, clearly, we want to pursue growth, but I think we have the capacity in our dividend pay -out ratio of 50% to pursue growth, and wit h the option of doing buy -backs as well.  Now, at the moment, I think we’ve seen a relatively subdued lending market in corporate banking.  I think the demand for term loans around the world is not particularly high at the moment, and probably isn’t going to  be particularly high in the very near term.  As Georges said earlier, once we get to 2024, one would expect there to be an increase in demand starting to emerge, but the near -term, for the next few months in 2023, given the economic uncertainty, we’ve seen  subdued loan demand.  So I think the message I’d give you, in a 50% pay -out ratio world, we believe the second 50% after we pay the dividends, there is potential to fund both growth and buy -backs, and that’s our plans going forward.  Georges, do you want to  just cover the deposit trend, the inflows, the outflows, and deposit migration?",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
27,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Sure, Martin.  If I start with some of the outflows that we’re seeing, and then I’ll go into the tailwinds.  Some of the outflows we’re seeing, particularly i n the UK – so obviously UK retail, Q1 is a tax payment period, so there is seasonality here.  We are still seeing high cost of living resilient inflation in the UK, which is obviously draining some of the UK consumers’ savings.  We have, to a lesser extent, competitive pressure as well in the UK. Likewise for corporate s in the UK, Q4 was in year -end where people shore up  their liquidity, whereas in Q1, most of the companies pay dividend s, and then you can see some of the draining liquidity.  We’re also seeing deleveraging of loans - using some of the deposits to deleverage on the loan side  - especially for those with a strong rate differential between what they’re paying on their loans. This being said, we continue to see growth and strength in the deposit pre position, so if I take Hong Kong and all of Asia, actually, we’re seeing definite deposit growth in the retail and personal banking space.  We have seen 5% growth of our deposit base in Commercial Banking in the US.  So we were one of the beneficiary banks of the deposit migration from medium -sized banks into large banks, and we obviously continued to cherish our propositions and deposits to continue attracting the deposits at the right price.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
28,qa,12.0,,Tom Rayner,Analyst,Numis,"Hi, there.  Good morning, guys.  Two, please.  First one on the loan growth.  You flagged the corporate demand, and maybe that is the answer.  I want to ask, because you’re quite upbeat on the economic recovery you’re seeing now in Hong Kong and mainland China , and the UK that you said was quite resilient . Is there any other reason why you’re so cautious in the short term on loan growth, or is it purely a lack of demand from corporates?  And my second question is on cost, please.  It’s looking at the 3% target for this year and thinking forward to next year,  because I guess you’re still enjoying some of the flow - through this year from cost savings from the previous cost programme, which has now ended. So I just wondered if you or George s would comment on your approach towards costs in 2024, whether you’ll be thinking in terms of absolute growth, maybe similar to this year or whether a jaws approach might be more appropriate.  I don’t know if there’s any colour you could add for the next year.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
29,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"On loan growth – listen, I think your point’s a fair one . I think if there is a place where I think loan growth could pick up more in the near term, I think it would be Asia.  I think Middle East is another option.  So I think I am being a bit cautious on the near -term loan growth. I think probably it would start  to emerge more in the working capital side of the balance sheet, trade finance, before people start investing in fixed capital, but I think there is a level of nervousness out there in the corporate world about taking long -term investment decisions in fixed capital.  That is aside from sustainability.  I think there’s a lot of infrastructure spend taking place, and I could see some loan growth coming in and around that sustainable infrastructure investment.  So maybe I am being a bit cautious on loan growth a t the moment.  I think I’d rather be that way in the near term, but I do believe there’s going to be medium -term loan growth, and I think it is fair to say that Asia has the potential to pick up faster than elsewhere in the world.  So yeah, I think it may be  fair that I’m being a bit cautious.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
30,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Just adding to Noel’s comment, Tom, if you look at Hong Kong, in the retail space, both cards and mortgages have been growing in the first quarter.  Even in the UK, we are seeing green shoots in the mo rtgage sector.  I mean, market share in the UK for the first two months of the year is at 15% for new business.  That’s against the book market share for both 7.5%, and the Q4 new business market share of 9%, so we’re certainly there in the retail space wher e we’re seeing growth.  On the wholesale side, I just want to add one comment to Noel’s description, which is also bear in mind the rate differential between mainland China and Hong Kong.  So all those Chinese companies who used to use Hong Kong as a base fo r raising funding internationally will be less doing so as long as the rate differential between dollar rates and onshore China rates are that wide.  It is cheaper for these corporates to raise funding in mainland China as opposed to Hong Kong, and that wil l remain the case up until the time we see reversal in that rate trend. If I move to your second question, Tom, we have not shared targets for 2024 as yet, but the few guiding principles, I can share with you.  The first guiding principle, paramount guidin g principle, is that you should expect our focus on cost discipline to continue.  The second guiding principle is that we will continue doing transformation and restructuring as part of our BAU cost base and expect some of those saves  to flow through also i n 2024 and beyond, and case in point is the spend on severance, which we’re planning now to do in Q2 this year, for which the benefit will flow through mostly in 2024.  And thirdly, at this stage, we’re still looking to guide towards a dollar cost number as  opposed to jaws, and the way we would be looking at 2024 as we come to be able to give you additional guidance later in the year.",2023,Q1,False,230502-1q-2023-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
31,qa,1.0,,Manus Costello,Analyst,Autonomous,"Hi, thanks very much for taking my question. I wanted to ask about NII, please – a couple of questions. Firstly, I noted that the NIM was flat in Asia, in HBAP, quarter on quarter. Could you give us a bit more colour around that and what you would expect in Q3? I appreciate the trading book costs have been somewhat allocated there, but I would still have thought that you might see some benefit from higher HIBOR in HBAP. So please elucidate that performance a little bit more. And then, secondly, you also talked about increasing hedging and the structural hedge in order to reduce your downside risk on NII. Can you go into a bit more detail about what you’ve done and how we should think about that in terms of potential benefits going forward into 2024 and beyond? Thank you very much.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
32,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Manus. So on NIM/NII, NIM in Asia was flat because most of the uplift from rates has translated into an uplift into the non-NII component of the trading book funding, about $0.3 billion uplift in that space. We’ve introduced Banking NII. In due course, we will enhance our disclosure in this space to introduce Banking NII sensitivity and Banking NIM, which would be reflecting such an uplift. With regards your second question, Manus, the hedging activity – so if you look at our NII sensitivity, downwards 100 basis points, it has reduced from $4 billion to $2.6 billion. About a third of that reduction is due to our structural hedging activity and another third of that reduction will be a fact of the change of composition of our balance sheet, and then the last third is numerous other factors including modelling enhancements. If you now look at our structural hedging activity, which we’ve conducted over the last 12 months, the overall impact on the reduction of banking NII sensitivity is to the tune of $1 billion.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
33,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Sure, so, due to the somewhat subdued loan growth in Asia, the management of Asia has taken the decision to allocate more funding towards supporting some of the trading activities. So overall funding of our trading books globally, which was heavily used also in Asia, moved from about $108 billion or circa 6% of our deposit base to around $130 billion or about 8% or 9% of our deposit base. That additional lending or that additional transition from funds has moved NII into non-NII income. It is still rates-sensitive and it does benefit from the improved level of rates, particularly in dollars, where it’s coming from.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
34,qa,2.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"Good morning, Noel, good morning, Georges; good morning, Richard. I had two questions, please. So, again, on net interest income, at face value your ‘greater than $35 billion’ NII guide does imply a step-off in the run rate of net interest income in Q3 and Q4. I suspect you’d point us to the ‘greater than $35 billion’, suggesting that there’s some conservatism that’s baked in there, but can you talk to what the pressures are or indeed actually even the sources of support on the net interest income run rate from here through to year-end? I think one thing the market would love is some sense of whether this level of net interest income is sustainable beyond this year, so anything you can give us there. I know, relatedly, that the UK has been very strong as well, so any kind of colour you can give us on the moving parts there and the sustainability of net interest income in the UK would be great. The second question was around distributions, specifically around your dividend. You’re reiterating your 50% payout ratio guidance this year. This year and potentially next year does look like it’s going to be quite strong earnings. I guess if I take consensus, looking for an underlying EPS of around 120 cents, which implies an ordinary dividend of 60 cents, that number feels big. It’s big versus the 51 cents you used to do; it’s big versus what you did last year. And I guess the question is how comfortable are you with paying a big ordinary dividend now which might then become quite difficult to sustain in the future, as rates come off and earnings taper? Are you bothered that you do 60 cents this year and you do some number that’s lower than that next year or thereafter? Thank you very much.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
35,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Georges, do you want to take the NII one first and clarify our position on that? Then we’ll come to distributions.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
36,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Sure. Thank you, Aman. In turn addressing your points, first, as you did say, we’re emphasising this as a floor. We’re emphasising this as a guidance of greater than $35 billion. We’re revising this floor because we’re gaining more comfort halfway into the year and with the outcomes of H1. We want to remain cautious, and you may find our guidance to be cautious given the difficulty to forecast some of the challenges I’ll talk about in a second. And then in terms of outlook for the rest of the year, look, we are not looking to change the consensus for H2 NII. We’re comfortable where H2 NII stands at this stage. Now, in terms of the pressure and the support we’re seeing, we’re seeing certainly tailwinds that we’ve seen already in Q2, one in terms of additional rate hikes, to be expected very much in the major currencies such as dollars, pounds and euros. We’ve seen also tailwinds in the HIBOR normalisation. We’ve seen about 1% quarter on quarter normalisation of HIBOR and, if you look at July, we continue seeing further normalisation. HIBOR is now around 5%, so probably around the end of July will have fully normalised, and those will provide us certainly some tailwinds as we look into H2. This being said, we continue to see the same headwinds we’ve been calling out from the year- end, and they will continue manifesting in H2. The first headwind which we forecast to remain is the subdued balance sheet growth, certainly subdued loan growth due to the activity. We have indicated that we may see some resumption in 2024, but for the next half year it will probably remain as a headwind and, naturally, the other headwind that is very difficult to forecast is the deposit costs, the behaviour, what pass-through rates we will be feeding in, what is the impact of lagged migration to time deposits. In Hong Kong, we’re still assuming a 1% migration per month, and whether this manifests as it is, it’s very difficult to forecast, hence our cautiousness. Now, if I look forward, look, we’re not guiding for NII in 2024, but there are a few things I can just give you to bake into your analysis. The first one is you have to exclude Canada and France retail on completion of these transactions, which now we expect for Canada in Q1 2024 and in France, as we initially ambitioned, we’re aiming 1 January 2024. The second one – you have to expect that balance sheet growth will resume at some stage in 2024 and that will give us support for NII. The third one is obviously the structured hedging, which I mentioned a bit earlier, and the impact they will have on more stabilisation of outlook for NII. And obviously the fourth one is what interest rate assumptions you are going to use and what pass-through rates you are going to use. And then, last but not least, we’re investing a lot in our non-NII or fee income-earning businesses and do expect fee income-earning businesses to continue driving some of that growth. That’s it for the NII component. So dividends – so what we shared is that we’re going to pay a 50% dividend payout ratio, excluding notable items. I think in your math, based on consensus, you have taken out notable items. I’m not going to comment on the size of the dividend, but what I’m going to say is, in order for us to sustain dividend, there are a few things we’re working on, and you can as well do the math, Aman. The first one is share buybacks. As you know, share buybacks is reducing our share count, and to the extent we ambition to continue on a journey of share buybacks as long as we remain capital-generative, which is what we forecast, you have to adjust your denominator by the share count. The second thing is the NII stabilisation actions we are taking, which should give us some protection from a reversal of the rate cycle, and the third one is obviously our cost discipline will be maintained even though we haven’t yet – we are not ready to share numbers – we will maintain the discipline, and lastly, as I again indicated, fee income growth and the investments we are putting in fee-generating areas such as investment and wealth are also initiatives to support, mitigate, turn in our earnings and therefore turn and possible in our dividends beyond 2024.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
37,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"In terms of the buyback, obviously the fact that today we announced a $2 billion buyback will today have an impact on our Q3 CET1 ratio of 25 basis points, but you do expect us to continue generating profitability, which will build capital, 50% of which will be provisioned for dividend, as in based on a 50% dividend payout ratio anticipation, and therefore that buyback will take into the additional capital generation, so I wouldn’t look at Q3 25 basis points as due to the buyback we just announced as a challenge. This is obviously just upfronting, if you want, the profit generation that we will be doing in the quarter. Beyond that, again, at this stage what I can say is we believe we remain capital-generative for the foreseeable future, and as long as we’re capital-generative, we continue to ambition a rolling series of share buybacks, but obviously we will review this on a quarter-by-quarter basis based on a number of factors, including our capital adequacy ratio. I just want to also highlight – and probably answering your question, Raul, and complementing the question of Aman earlier – that the Canada sale expected in Q1 2024 will provide us additional capital. The priority use of the first part of it is for a 21 cents dividend, which we will be in a position to distribute expected in H1 2024, and then the residual part of it we will utilise to supplement or complement or top up any capital buyback we are planning to do.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
38,qa,5.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"Hi, I have two questions. One is more long term and one is more near term. For the long-term questions, I will ask management if you can give us any colour on potential impact of Basel III reform, because I think one of the key support on share prices is buyback and shareholder return, and then I think the impact of capital because of these potential regulatory changes will have an impact on how we model in future capital return, but this is more in the long-term. I understand that. I just want to get some colour – any colour – particularly after the US regulator released that Basel III endgame. How would that change our present forecast on that? So this is for the long-term question. And then on the near term, just now I think management gave us a number – a potential additional ECL charges on China CRE $0.7 billion, and then I also noticed that for our guidance for full-year credit cost is 40 basis points, but if I look at the first half, it’s a bit less than 30 basis points on an annualised basis, so that additional upside on credit costs – have we included that $0.7 billion or that $0.7 billion is outside of the 40 basis points guidance?",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
39,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I think I’ll take the second one first and then ask Georges to cover the more technical, difficult Basel III question. So on the ECL, we decided to maintain guidance at 40 basis points on ECL because there is still a lot of economic uncertainty out there. There’s economic uncertainty around China’s commercial real estate. There’s economic uncertainty generally in the world. We’ve had a good first half performance on ECL, as you say. $1.3 billion is below the run rate of 40 basis points, so we think we do have some capacity to absorb some of that risk that’s inherent in the commercial real estate book in China, but I think I’d be misleading you if everything was so scientifically proven, because it all depends on what happens elsewhere in the world. So, I could easily say, ‘Yes, we’ve got capacity to absorb that,’ but it depends what happens elsewhere in the world, but we do believe we have – it’s right to maintain a conservative guidance at the moment on ECLs at 40 basis points, and we have capacity in the second half, relative to the first half performance, to absorb some additional shocks, should they come through from near-term economic issues. Georges, do you want to handle Basel III?",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
40,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Yes, maybe just finishing on the ECL point, I would caution you not to annualise H1. If you look at Q2 at $0.9 billion as a more normalised level, so that is more a level that you can look at, whereas Q1 was unusually quite low, so this is why H1 will look low to your taste. So on Basel III, the first thing to share about Basel III is we need to know the final rules. At this stage, most of these rules are still in draft form, and they will remain subject to change as we know the final rule. The second thing I will share is that, based on the current draft rules as per our PRA standards for the Group holdings, there will be a minor improvement initially in our RWAs, but as the output floor starts kicking in five years into the journey, so from 2025 plus five years, there is a likelihood that the outputs floor will catch us and that the impact may be in a material up or down – but immaterial up as we look at it this way. This being said, I just want to caution one thing. The US obviously issued their draft rules last week. They came out more severe than we initially expected. They will have an impact on our US operations. It remains a marginal impact. We’re likely talking single-digit RWA uplift against a possible downward move before that, but those rules will impact our local reporting for our US entity – will not change the way we report at the group level, so we will need to navigate both, if you want, in parallel.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
41,qa,6.0,,Nick Lord,Analyst,Morgan Stanley,"Again, a couple of questions if I may, please. I think Georges has given a very thorough description of how you might sustain earnings post return end rates, but obviously a lot of that fee generation is going to come at a cost, so I just wonder if I could invite you to talk about how you think of balancing that fee generation with cost in the next two to three years. And then secondly, a little bit more specific, but you’re now three or four months into having bought SVB. We’ve spoken a little bit about it here. I just wonder if you could give us a little bit more detail on how your plans have evolved for that business.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
42,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Yeah, thanks Nick, and by cost I’m assuming you mean investment cost to get to it.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
43,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Yes, that’s fair. Listen, you’re absolutely right. We’re keeping a strong and tight cost discipline in the bank, but what we’re doing is we’re reallocating cost “from / to”, and what we’re typically reallocating is from what I’d call bad costs – costs that are associated with low returning portfolios, low returning business activities in certain markets or costs that are associated with manual processes that should be digitised – so if you look at our cost performance, I think we increased our investment in IT costs by 12% so far this year – first half to first half – we increased some of our investment cost in our global businesses, and we reduced cost elsewhere, and that’s what’s getting us back to the 3%. So we’re investing and saving at the same time, and that is a phenomenon that probably, historically, HSBC has not been great at. It has typically been cost management or cost investment, and it has been a cycle. You manage costs tightly, and then you invest. We’re definitely trying to do both at the same time, and there’s a lot of self-funding going on to try and mitigate the overall cost base, and that’s how we’re building out the 1,400 people in mainland China, because we’re saving cost through other country exits, other market exits, reducing our support costs in some of the manual processes in our global processing centres. That’s allowing that investment to take place, and that’s been the journey for the past three years. On SVB, the integration is going well. We’ve had no nasty surprises since the day we bought the business. It was profitable the day we bought it. It is still profitable. We’re going through systems migration at the moment. One statistic which is probably an important guide for the future – in the three months post-acquisition, we took in new-to-bank customers at a higher rate than the three months prior to acquisition, so in the transition of ownership from the previous owners to us, we’ve seen an uptick in the momentum of customers wanting to bank with SVB in that first three-month period. That acquisition has also given us the knowledge, the platform, the connections, and frankly, the positive brand and reputation globally that has allowed us to go and recruit a team in the US. We recruited a team here in Hong Kong and we’ve recruited a team in Israel. So my view that there is strong growth prospects in that business, not just for the next two or three years – I’m doing this because I think this will be an important business for us in the five to 10 to 15-year timeframe. This is an important sector of the economy and we’re willing to invest in it, so I’m very pleased with how it’s going. We probably do owe you, as an investment community, more detail on how material, what are the numbers, and I’ll think we’ll come back to you at the end of the year with, if you add this all together, the investment and the current bought business, what could that potentially look like going forward and how material is that, but that is something, if it’s okay, we’ll give you more towards the end of this year with the full- year results.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
44,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So Guy, maybe I’ll start by talking about the dynamic and I’ll delve into NIM specifically, but first, in terms of passthrough rates on the deposits, for the last 50 basis points of rate hikes from the Bank of England, we’ve passed through to our retail savings rate around 70% so we believe, from a consumer point of view, we are competitive having passed through, and obviously this is a higher than 50% passthrough. The overall book passthrough is in the around between 40% and 50%, but clearly the marginal passthroughs are higher at these high level of rates. Equally on the mortgages, we continue aiming for market share, so we’ve grown the stock market share from 7.7% to 7.8% and our new business market share is now just shy of 10%, so we maintain a leading proposition in mortgages. Now if I go specifically on the NIM, without talking to our peers, some parameters that you can use when you’re doing your assessment and your analysis – the first one is we have a very strong liquidity position with a very strong deposit franchise and a low loan-to-deposit ratio. The second one to take into account is we are relatively small in consumer finance, so that component of our portfolio is single-digit percentage of our retail finance. The third one to take into account is that our structural hedging is relatively young, i.e. we started the structural hedging essentially when rates started to be at higher levels, so we have little baggage from structural hedging positions from prior, i.e. when rates were very low, and this is obviously helping us in adjusting our NIM upwards, and we’re not bugged by low-interest-earning assets from older structural hedges. And in terms of expectations, I think it’s fair to expect that the increase we’ve seen in Q1 is unlikely to be repeated as we look into the rest of the year.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
45,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Our RoTE guidance of mid-teens initially has been excluding notable items, so for this year, obviously we had two notable items in Q1: the provisional gain of SVB, $1.5 billion, but also the reversal of the impairment of the French retail business, $2.1 billion. As we look to year-end, we do anticipate that we will reinstate this impairment sometime in H2 for a possible, obviously, closure of the transaction on 1 January, so that notable item, if you want, washes itself out from our full-year expectations. As regards 2024, I think the Canada impact is a couple percentage points on our RoTE, so whether you stretch the mid-teens a little bit on either side, you may still be right, but we would like to take it out because obviously it remains – while we are very confident in the resolution – it remains an element that is subject to continued regulatory approvals, so you can do your math with or without.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
46,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"So I suppose the way we are looking at mid-teens as – if you look at the first half - we printed a headline rate of 22.4% RoTE. If you take out the two notable items, you get to an 18.5% RoTE. We’re guiding mid-teens to be equivalent, you could say, with the 18 number, not the 22 number, and if you think about 2024, there’ll be a profit on sale of Canada, assuming that transaction completes. There will be a capital policy around that in the form of dividend and in the form of buybacks, but we’re not including that profit on sale within our guidance – we’re not including that in our definition of mid-teens. That’s over and above. So what we’re trying to say we’re giving you a mid-teens RoTE guidance for the core business, not with the big swings in M&A activity achieving it. That’s the way I’d look at it, so we just want to try and make sure everyone understands what we mean by mid-teens, and it doesn’t include the big one-offs – either the one-off positives or the one-off negatives. We’re looking at the fundamental business in guiding to that.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
47,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,And just adding – complementing that – we’re not trying to change consensus at this stage.,2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
48,qa,,4.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I think you’ve overread it, because what we said is the guidance is for 2023 and 2024. We’re not giving you guidance for 2025 and beyond. We will do that at some stage, so I wouldn’t overread that. Clearly, in 2025 and beyond you’ve got interest rates that will start to come off, but I’m also talking about building alternative revenue streams, building balance sheet growth because as interest rates come off, economic recovery improves and the balance sheet will start to grow again. So our job as a management team and our philosophy is we want to try and make sure we can mitigate some of that downside risk, either through hedging or alternative growth strategies to stabilise the RoTE over time, but for the avoidance of doubt, we are not guiding at the moment on 2025 RoTE. We’re only guiding on 2023 and 2024, and we’ll have to see how the economics of the world develop, and I think Georges should probably reiterate what he said at the end of that, because the line went a bit hazy, Georges, on consensus.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
49,qa,,5.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Look, we’re not trying to change consensus – where we see consensus for our RoTE for 2023 and 2024.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
50,qa,9.0,,Perlie Mong,Analyst,KBW,"Hello, I’ve just got two questions. The first one is perhaps on non- interest income, especially in wealth in Asia. If I look at your Asian entity reporting and look at revenues, it’s pretty flat quarter on quarter, but NII has gone up a little bit, so that suggests to me that non-interest income has come down a little. I’m just wondering what you see in the frontline, especially with regards to wealth and obviously Hong Kong’s GDP print yesterday was quite a bit weaker than expected, so just what you see in context and your expectation about your Chinese business and to what extent do you think that that might help you. So that’s my first question. And then the second question is on deposit migration in Hong Kong because I noted in slide 41 it looks like Hang Seng, which is obviously traditionally very strong retail savings franchise, it looks like deposit migration went the other way, so does that suggest that migration is nearly there in Hong Kong and is it topping out?",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
51,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"On the non-NII wealth in Asia, you will observe actually the biggest pick-up is in insurance – sorry, first taking the impact of funding the trading book, which is showing under non-NII and is material, it’s $1.2 billion. If you take this one out, the growth is essentially from insurance and insurance in Hong Kong. It does appear under non-NII, but not fee income. That growth is a reflection of the growth we’ve seen in Q1. It’s in the 40% to 50% growth year on year. It is reflective of the opening of the border between China and Hong Kong and the additional inflow of mainland Chinese new policies in our Hong Kong business. About 30% of new policies are from mainland Chinese. As you would expect, insurance is a core component of wealth, in particular here in Hong Kong, and that’s the main driver of the growth. We still see some softness in wealth with regards equities trading, and that’s more reflective of the equity markets in general, and I want to say while the Hong Kong GDP is the main driver of our loan portfolios in terms of growth in our balance sheet, wealth activity is not necessarily directly linked to the GDP. It is linked to investor behaviours and it is linked to sentiment in the market. With regards your second question on migration, in HSBC we continue to see a migration of around 1% per month, although it did slow a little bit in April, but that continued a trend that we have been forecasting, whereas in Hang Seng, where the term deposit share is in the mid-30s percent. Our colleagues in Hang Seng have taken a proactive approach to manage some of the highly rate-sensitive deposits, and allowed them, if you want, to accept some attrition against these highly rate-sensitive or rate-chasing deposits, and this is what allowed them to maintain or slightly reduce their term deposit mix. They’re benefiting from a very strong liquidity position and a strong deposit franchise, and they do not need, necessarily, highly rate-sensitive deposits at that margin.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
52,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"I can take the first part. Sam, first our mortgage – we continue printing mortgages. Yes, indeed the rates are quite attractive for borrowers. And we increased our mortgage book, not a very large amount, but we increased our mortgage book. So we continue – and this is despite subdued property sales in Hong Kong. We continue increasing our book. On the pricing, as you know, the mortgages are capped and the pricing is highly correlated to the savings rate. For instance, last week we increased the saving rate by about 12.5 basis points on the Hong Kong dollar. It automatically increases the cap, and therefore the mortgage pricing today, by 12.5 basis points. I see this as a natural evolution with rates, not a specific pricing for the mortgage or a specific dynamic for the mortgage pricing, if you want.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
53,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"In terms of China macro – so, we had a brief conversation before. If you take all of the international banks’ share of the corporate debt market in mainland China, I think all of us together are about 2% market share. So actually, growing your corporate banking business as an international bank, particularly if your strategy is connecting mainland China to the rest of the world in both directions – GDP is not the prime driver of growth in the sense of what you can do, because you’re still relatively niche in the market, and what is a huge market, so you can get growth despite the fact that GDP – and by the way, GDP is still 5%-plus, so it’s not bad, but you can still get growth. Similarly, in our wealth business that we’re pursuing in mainland China we’re pursuing an area which is around about helping internationally-orientated personal customers, and particularly the domestic customers in the Greater Bay Area get access to wealth products and insurance products to help them with their protection needs and their savings needs. That is primarily targeted at the affluent or the emerging affluent sector rather than particularly at the high net worth or ultra high net worth. That is the core business we have here in Hong Kong. The way I look at it is that the wealth proposition here in Hong Kong has been a very strong driver of growth and profitability for HSBC in Hong Kong. Will we see that same opportunity in the Greater Bay Area? The engagement between the Greater Bay Area – or the Guangdong province – and Hong Kong represents a significant long-term growth opportunity for us, and what we’re trying to do, which is different to three or four years ago, is we’re targeting international wealth and insurance as our primary proposition, as opposed to just becoming another mortgage provider or another card provider in Guangdong province. We see opportunity for growth. Yes, you can’t ignore the macro environment, but we do see conditions for good growth for our business in mainland China.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
54,qa,11.0,,Joe Dickerson,Analyst,Jefferies,"Just a quick question, and most have been asked and answered. Just on the dividend question that Aman asked, the answer was slightly longwinded. If I interpret what you’re saying, it sounds like you would like the dividend – the ordinary to be progressive? Secondly, can you just discuss from the Hong Kong business or the HBAP business the NIM trend that was flat, quarter on quarter? How much was the US dollar-denominated business in play there, because if I look at your rate sensitivity disclosures the USD bucket now looks liability-sensitive as opposed to asset-sensitive. How much of the NIM movement there, in an adverse sense, was attributed to the US dollar business, or was it something else?",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
55,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Let me deal with the dividend one first. The guidance we’ve given is that for 2023 and 2024 we’ll have a 50% payout ratio. In addition, we’ve guided to the first use of proceeds of Canada’s sale proceeds will be a 21 cents special dividend. We’re not giving any guidance on whether the dividend’s progressive or not progressive. We’re only giving the guidance that we’ve just said, which is 50% of profits. Clearly as a management team our ambition is to make our profits progressive, but we’re not guiding on dividend as a progressive dividend policy. Our policy is 50% payout ratio, and that will be a function of earnings. Georges, do you want to cover Hong Kong NIM?",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
56,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"On the Hong Kong NIM, the NII increased by $0.1 billion but the banking NIM increased by $0.4 billion because the non-NII component of the trading funding increased by $0.3 billion. Now, the way the statutory NIM is computed is only looking at the NII component, and therefore it’s showing flat, but as I mentioned, we will be upgrading our disclosures and enhancing our disclosure with regards to the Banking NIM. That will give you move visibility on the overall margin when you take into account the funding of the trading book. Now, in terms of sensitivity to the USD you’re actually also driving towards the same dynamic in the funding of the trading book. Dollars has been a currency that we fund a number of our activities with, so when you look at the NII sensitivity dollars comes opposite to all the other currencies, because that’s a funding currency. Essentially dollars is funding our funding of the trading book, and therefore when you look at the funding book sensitivity we’ve put in a few explanations on the slides where we estimated this to be to the tune of $1.3 billion. It is fair to assume most of it is dollars, and therefore reverses it and renormalises our dollar sensitivity overall on the balance sheet to be that of a negative sensitivity for minus 100 basis points.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
57,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I just want to say thank you very much for all of your questions and your time today. We really appreciate you spending some time with us. Just to close with a couple of comments. We’ve had a good first six months. I’m pleased with how the business is performing. We’ve delivered an annualised return on tangible equity of 22.4%, or 18.5% excluding those notable items. We’ve increased dividends and buybacks. I’m also confident about the future. We still have opportunities to drive growth and to diversify revenue while retaining tight cost control. We have upgraded our returns guidance for 2023 and 2024. Richard and the team are available to you if you have any further questions, but in the meantime have a good rest of the day. Thank you very much.",2023,Q2,False,230802-2q-interim-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
58,presentation,,,Georges Elhedery,Group Chief Executive,HSBC,"Hello, everyone . Thank you for joining us on our third quarter results call today . I will lead today’s presentation and Noel will join me for the",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
59,qa,1.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"Two questions , please . Firstly, on costs , can I just probe you a little bit more on exactly what ’s changed around costs ? Because I think as recently as mid - September HS BC were  reiterating their expectations for costs very much in line with the existing guide and the commitment to the cost base . So particularly around the point around compensat ing staff - or potentially compensating st aff - for performance  - I understand th at it’s been a strong year for profit s, but it doesn ’t look like the view of profitability changed materially since you last spoke to us . So that component there would be interesting , and the related point then is to what extent should we expect that element of cost growth to roll over into next year ? At its heart, I ’m trying to get a sense of what the underlying cost growth is that you ’re currently seeing through the business. And then the second question was around margins . I was wondering if you co uld just help us a bit on your experience on deposit beta and term deposit mix, particularly in Hong Kong  but also a comment on the UK would be helpful and, as part of that, what your expectations are for NIM in both of those markets, please ?",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
60,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So, first, on costs, I think with regards to this 1% cost we contemplate for Q4 , look, we have to put this in the perspective of the financial performance . Obviously , at the start of the year , we weren ’t necessarily reali sing the performance of the group. We obviously need to wait for Q4 both to  assess the financial performance but equally to assess how we continue to deliver on our strategy . It ultimately will be a matter for the Board and the Remuneration Committee to decide , but we felt it appropriate and fair to recogni se that our colleagues have contributed , participated for the last many years through the whole strategic reshaping of the firm, through ensuring we have a great deposit franchise and a strong balance sheet and obviously delivering the growth we ’ve seen in Wealth and Transaction Banking, that we can channel 1% or the equivalent $300 million towards performance -related pay. Again, all this is at the stage of contemplation  and naturally we will reaffirm at the year end, and , again, subject to our Remuneration Committee’s opinion . In terms of next year , now we ’re not giving guidance, but I think we are reflecting in this performance -related pay a year -on-year material change in our performance, as you ’ve seen from our returns and our PBT, obviously with that quantum probably not expect ed for next year. In terms of margins , Aman,  as we indicated , at these levels of rates, mostly in the UK and certainly in a number of western markets  and for our wholesale businesses – at these levels of rates, we were expecting to have materially higher betas than 50% . We’ve expected that additional rate hikes from here would be mostly for the benefit for our customers . If you look at the overall betas  in the UK , overall  beta is just north of 50% . So while the marginal betas have exceeded 50%, the overall number is in the range of 50%. Term deposit mix – Hong Kong kind of same trend as we ’ve seen through the nine month s coming to this quarter, about 1% migration per month . So we have seen 4% over the quarter after 2% previous quarter and 3% in quarter one . That took the total term deposit mix to 31% in Hong Kong . We have not seen a deterioration of the trend . So we expect the trend to remain the same as we look into potential headwinds in the future, but equally we continue to see some of the tailwinds we were calling out before to continue. Just to put in perspective, the UK term deposit mix  is just single -digit percentage points, so it ’s a modest increase in Q3, but it ’s not the main contributor to the dynamic of our NII.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
61,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"If I could just add a couple of comments on the variable pay , there are two factors that are really coming to play in Q3 . At the half year , when we talked about our cost position, we had an  eye to variable pay , and we had a very strong first six months of the year . There was a lot of economic uncertainty around at that time  – inflation, interest r ates, E CLs, mainland China commercial real estate  – so we didn ’t want to anticipate exactly what the financial performance would be in the final six months of the year . We were confident of mid -teen returns, but we needed to make sure that the final six months traded well . I think as we ’ve gone through Q3 we ’ve continued to trade well . So I think our expectations now on a full -year outturn are probably higher than they would  have been when we started this year and started to build the financial plan for this year. So, in the context of things, we ’ve given an indication that given the strong profit performance , and if it continues into Q4 , it would be right to share some of that  upside in profit compared to original expectations with our colleagues , in t he way that we intend to share the upside in expectations with our shareholders on both dividends and buyback s. A 1% $300 million top up to variable pay  for a level of performance that could well outturn this year is a reasonable amount of additional variable pay  to put in, and I will remind you that variable pay  is not a continuum and a baseline . It is assessed each year on the profit of the bank against targe ts and can go up and can go down. But that ’s a final determination we ’ll make at the end of the year, and we ’re just trying to be fair to our colleagues on what they ’ve done . Trading  performance  has become less uncertain as we’ve got into Q3  – and you ’ve seen the numbers  – and we hope w ill continue in Q4 in a strong manner  and, if that ’s the case, we feel we should reward our colleagues for a very strong performance this year, but that ’s the background to it . Both myself and George  remain absolutely committed  to strong cost discipline.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
62,qa,2.0,,Joseph Dickerson,Analyst,Jefferies,"Just following up on costs, how much of the tech and op s cost spend was, if you will, necessary versus discretionary in terms of needing to keep up with competitors and s o forth? Then the other aspect would be on the trading book funding costs.  You have guided to greater than $7 billion for the full year, and on my numbers, you’re already at $6.2 billion, so that implies a material step down in that cost, unless we should  be emphasising on the ‘in excess of ’ $7 billion element there.  Any colour on that front would also be helpful.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
63,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"I’ll answer your second question.  You should definitely, as you mentioned, emphasise the ‘in excess of ’ $7 billion.  We haven’ t revised our guidance.  We felt, by and large, that the consensus is in the right place, and didn’t need to influence it.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
64,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Purely for the funding costs of th e trading book, you should expect that the trading balances will remain broadly stable at around $130 billion for the quarter.  Then the math s are simple.  It’s just that , times the short rate levels, essentially, in USD.  As you look at the overall Banking NII, I think the indication is that we’ve grown $0.1 billion Q2 to Q3.  We haven’t given indication for Q4.  Again, we feel comfortable with where the consensus is for Q4, and just to reiterate that Banking NII is probably a better measure, because it gets you immunised for some of these choices we make in how much we fund the trading book with. With regards your first question about tech and ops, it’s a mix of necessary and discretionary. We made the decisi on on the basis that, first, when we put our cost base at the start of the year, we had a materially higher inflation in some areas, in some geographies and in some pockets than we anticipated for the year, and we felt that it would be adverse for certain customer outcomes if we needed to take more restrictive action on it, and this is putting it in the context that our nine -month year -to-date reported cost is down 2% year on year, so this is why we were willing to tolerate the continued investment in tech and ops. I just want to reaffirm what Noel said.  We are absolutely committed to our cost discipline, and we will be giving you visibility about how we are spending our money now and in the future. Thank you, Joseph.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
65,qa,3.0,,Jason Napier,Analyst,UBS,"The first one please on the $600 million of losses on the hedge reset and risk management this quarter, and the extra $400 million  that’s pencilled in for Q4 – I wonder whether you wouldn’t mind adding a bit of colour in terms of exactly what it is you’re doing there.  The payback period – you said longer than five years.  It feels like a downside risk hedge that’s being put in place.  If you could just talk about how much you might get the sensitivity down, once all is said and done, and just confirm that it really pays you if rates fall rather than supports revenues in the near term. Then secondly, we’ve had a busy week of mainland Chinese bank reporting.  All of the majors have missed our own forecasts, and one of your peers wrote down their mainland China stake with their third -quarter results.  Could you update us please on where value -in-use is versus book value on BoCom, and how that process runs towards year -end?",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
66,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So first on the treasury losses, a few things to share here.  The first is we see this as one of the multiple tools we have to manage our structural hedge, and to manage the risk in our balance sheet.  Second, importantly, the losses themselves have been taken already into CET1, mostly last year, so these are already factored in o ur CET1, and this is why, effectively, they have a mild CET1 ratio benefit where we sit today. Then third, as you indicated, Jason, we are looking to retrieve these losses in the NII line, essentially over the next five years, so this is a reinvestment in to either longer dated or higher yielding instruments by faster disposing of lower yielding instruments to allow us to move faster in our structural hedging of the balance sheet.  If you wanted some sense of math s, you could argue if we have taken $600 mill ion losses, it is about $100 million additional NII every year for the next six years or so, which gives you a sense of how we are looking at it, and it’s indeed as part of our structural hedging, which means part of how we are protecting the balance sh eet, mitigating risks of a rate downfall in the future. On your second question  about mainland China, first I can comment on BoCom’s Q2 performance because, as you know, in our numbers we have one quarter delay, so the exercise relates to Q2.  Our value -in-use as of Q3 has room of about $0.4 billion compared to our carrying value.  Impairment is not a management discretionary decision.  There is a rigorous accounting process and we will just follow the process and, based on their Q3 results, we will evaluate those as we go into Q4, and that will be part of our end -of-year assessment. I think the important thing I want to share about BoCom is because it sits in significant investments and because we hold regulatory capital deductions against it, as you can see from the slide on capital, $16 billion capital deduction – it effectively means that any impairment on our holding of BoCom, should i t happen, will have virtually nil CET1 ratio impact, and that’s because any impairment will be compensated like for like by a release of the deductions of a similar amount.  So therefore, no implication on CET1.  It will have an implication on accounting reported profits, but we’ll treat it as a material notable item and it will have no implications, either on the way we calculate our dividend or our dividend payout ratio, so this is why, at this stage, this is not a concern.  We’ll just follow the accounting rules as we do the VIU assessment.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
67,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Just for clarity, based on the impairment test we did at Q3, we have headroom against our carrying value.  There is no impairment due at Q3, and we’ll reassess it at Q4, but based on the Q3 results that BoCom issued a couple of days ago, those results, at a headline level first side, did not cause us any concern on our impairment test at Q3, but we’ll reassess that at Q4.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
68,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"You’ll have the details in the AR&A in how we do the impairment testing for the value in use of BoCom, in case you need it.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
69,qa,4.0,,Gurpreet Singh Sahi,Analyst,Goldman Sachs,"First one on loan growth – how do we see the areas of loan growth going into next year?  You have done a good growth around mortgages, but they have been offset by s hrinkage in the commercial book.  So that’s the first one.  In terms of medium term, of course you are highlighting single -digits, but specifically as interest rates remain high, how is the borrowing appetite into next year?  Then the second one with respect to the special dividend timing, the 21 cents – will it be paid by June or will it be announced towards the second quarter and paid later on?",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
70,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"In terms of loan growth, what we’ve observed so far is strong continued growth in mortgages.  We said $11 billion year to date, essentially in Hong Kong and the UK.  That continued even this quarter, despite softness in the housing market, but we remain competitive and we continue to support this business for our customers, so that is definitely there.  We are also seeing some loan growth in the unsecure d space in our retail business.  It will be smaller proportions. In terms of commercial, the reality is the main softness in loan growth in commercial is in Hong Kong, and this is what’s driving the comm ercial overall number.  The softness in Hong Kong has two parameters.  One, the rate differential with mainland China, and as long as we have such a rate differential, it is expected to have mainland Chinese borrowers continue borrowing onshore mainland Chin a rather than borrowing offshore, and that probably will not reverse in the next couple of years.  But also, two is some of the softness we’ve seen in the economic conditions in Hong Kong, which we start to see reversing, and we have been encouraged by the policy measures that have been taken by way of supporting the economy and, as those materialise, we will start seeing some pickup in this segment. Now, outside these softness areas, we do still have strong loan growth potential in growing areas in our geo graphies, such as Southeast Asia, India, and the Middle East.  We even had growth in some of the Western economies, so that is happening.  Quite importantly, also, I want to call out growth in trade.  I called it out in the earlier speech, but trade is bucking the trend for the first quarter, where we’ve seen 3% growth in our loan book after several quarters of decline, and that’s encouraging.  We’ll obviously need to see how it evolves, but that’s definitely encouraging, and if you look at it, most of th at growth is in Asia, which means it’s bucking the trend in Asia, and that’s certainly on the backdrop of now the trade between China and ASEAN has exceeded trade between China and Europe or China and the US, and that obviously will benefit, given our foot print in China and ASEAN. On the special dividend, at this stage we’re aiming for completion of Canada sometime in Q1. We will then have to go through due governance and due approvals before we do it.  I think H1 2024 is reasonable to expect, but it is obv iously, at this stage, just a matter of a process we need to go through.  I think that’s what I can say at this stage.  We’ll pay it as soon as we can, that’s what we can say at this stage.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
71,qa,5.0,,Manus Costello,Analyst,Autonomous,"Can I probe you a bit more on the hedging that you’ve got in place?  You’ve talked about increased hedging for the last couple of quarters and you have this quarter, as you’ve discussed previously, taken some losses through the held -for-sale portfolio to improve that now and next year, but we lack an overall understanding of what you’ve got in terms of the hedge, and so my question specifically is: how big is your hedge and what’s the duration of your hedge, so that we can do some modelling to understand how much protection you’ve got into 2 024 and beyond?  Thank you.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
72,qa,6.0,,Raul Sinha,Analyst,JP Morgan,"A couple of follow -ups from me, please, if I can.  I guess the first one is just around slide 17, looking at the split of NIM across your main subsidiaries.  I’m just trying to u nderstand the underlying NIM trajectory for the bank in the absence of any rate changes from here on.  If you look at the UK bank – the ringfenced bank – obviously, that margin has been under pressure this quarter, and a number of peers are obviously flaggi ng the lag effect on deposit costs as well as the migration is going to have an impact in Q4.  I was just wondering if you could give us a little bit of colour on what you think is the outlook for your business in terms of margin in the UK. Then just linki ng it back to the group margin, which is, as you say, broadly stable but starting to come under a little bit of pressure, the HIBOR -LIBOR gap is obviously very narrow. Seasonally, I guess HIBOR tends to go up in Q4, but when we take a step back and think a bout the overall margin trajectory, would you say that, in the absence of rate changes, the margin is stable, or do you think there is a little bit more pressure creeping in because of what is going on in the UK?",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
73,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Let me unpack.  There are  quite a number of considerations here.  The first one is I, as always, will encourage you to look at Banking NII, because that will – first, it’s a better reflection of our rate -sensitive earnings, and second, it will immunise you from some of the business  choices we make by putting more funding to support the trading activities or not, and that can create noise in NII versus funding of the trading book, which is unrelated when you look at it from a Banking NII perspective. Now talking a little bit on Q3, before I talk about the outlook, on the Q3 numbers, if you look at Banking NII in Hong Kong, it was up 10%.  Now, this is not reflected in NIM.  NIM is up two basis points, but essentially, because a lot of that upside went into the funding of the trading bo ok, but the full rate -sensitive earnings in Asia, in our Asian entity, has grown 10% by about $0.3 billion.  So that’s the first thing to observe.  If you look at HIBOR rates Q2 to Q3, obviously they were up 75 basis points.  When we look at Q4 to date, there  is another something like 50 basis points baked in the average, so there is additional tailwind into Q4 from HIBOR, which we’ll obviously need to see how the next two months fare before we evaluate. If you look at the UK, the UK NIM was up 16 basis poin ts Q1 to Q2, down eight basis points Q2 to Q3.  The first thing I want to say is this is definitely not the trend here to be read.  I think NIM is broadly stable from here for the next few quarters.  Some of these moves are idiosyncrasies in our Market s Treasury management, not necessarily drivers of trends, so we are looking at it, in the whole, as broadly stable.  Obviously, it continued facing pressure on deposit cost s, but as I just said earlier, at these rates any additional rate hikes are expected to be passed through to customers, and this is what’s been happening, so we’ve benefited from a 75 basis point rate hike in pounds between Q2 and Q3, most of which has gone either to customers in the form of passthroughs, some term deposit migration , in the U K minimal, but some, and then obviously asset margin compression in the UK. As you look forward, how can I invite you to evaluate forward first?  I’m not giving guidance for 2024.  The only guidance we are doing  in 2024 is the mid -teens RoTE . We will be giv ing more details at the year end, but if you want some indicators of how to think about it, first think about it as we will continue facing the usual headwinds of margin compression, but that probably is easing now, having seen most of that compression in Q2 and Q3.  We will continue to see pressure on deposits.  Migration may continue.  We’ve seen a pace of 1% per month in Hong Kong, steady for the last nine months.  That is likely to continue, so these will be the main headwinds. The tailwinds would be the a dditional rate upside in Hong Kong from HIBOR – probably no further rate upside in the major other currencies.  The tailwinds will be reinvestments of maturing structural hedges that have been put at lower rates and, as they mature, we reinvest them in higher rates and that will give us additional tailwinds.  Then the main tailwind, which we anticipate at some stage in 2024, but not yet – at least not for the next couple of quarters, but at some stage in 2024 – is volume growth.  When we start seeing volume gr owth, we will see the support for the NII in the medium term.  As we have always indicated, mid -single -digit percentage point growth for balance sheet is our medium -term aspiration, and as and when this starts, after the next couple of quarters of transitio n, this will give us the additional tailwinds. I suppose that’s probably as much as we can say at this stage.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
74,qa,7.0,,Perlie Mong,Analyst,KBW,"Just a couple of follow -ups – the first one is on your hedge strategy, because in the disposal losses, you’ve essentially broug ht forward some of the rolling of the hedge, which we haven’t really seen so much, especially in UK banks.  They tend to use it as a pure smoothing mechanism, to let the lower rates run off and then reinvesting, but you seem to have brought forward that.  So the question is: does that suggest that you’re not just using the hedge as a smoothing mechanism, but it’s to more actively trade it?  Is that fair?  That’s the first question. The second question is really for Noel.  I saw on Bloomberg that you made a comm ent that you feel like the China CRE situation has bottomed out.  Acknowledging that the Chinese government has taken steps to support the sector, but the news flow still seems to be pretty negative.  To the extent that there have been actions taken, they ar e probably not as large as maybe some of the market would have expected or hoped for a few months ago, so it’s probably around tailoring  deposit  requirements in some of the tier one cities.  What gives you the confidence that we have bottomed out?",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
75,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"I’ll take the first question and I’ll invite Noel  to comment on your second one.  The hedge strategy – first, we have a number of tools at our disposal.  We will use them as effectively and as opportunistically as we can to achieve what we want to achieve, which is 1) reducing the downside sensitivity of our balance sheet to a reduction in rates, and 2) extending that reduction of downside as far out in time as possible.  This strategy that we’ve used, which is disposing of existing low -earning posit ions, is one of these measures.  So number one, to remind you, it does not have a CET1 impact.  At least the loss does not have a CET1 impact, because the loss has been taken capital mostly in 2022 already, so that gives us this flexibility on our capital. The second one is, yes, part of the hedge considerations is indeed allowing us to extend higher yields for longer rather than retain some of the lower yielding assets for longer than we wish for and give us additional protection, and the third is it’s als o risk management considerations. We also look at how we use our RWAs and treasury portfolio and how we can optimise the utilisation thereof, and how we use combination of bonds and swap hedges and fair value accounting relationships, etc.  So there are all sorts of number of other considerations which we look at, but the outcome of which, for the purposes of our bottom line, is indeed giving us this runway. Now I need to point out we have done an exercise in Q3.  We indicate that we intend to do another exercise to the tune of about $0.4 billion in Q4, but we do not look at this as a recurring activity.  This is by exception, occasional, when risk management and performance justify it, we will do it.  This is not meant to be a recurrent , quarter -on-quarter activity.  I just want to be clear about that.  We’ve done it last quarter; we’ll do it next quarter.  Anything beyond that we will give you indication, but it’ll be on a case by case and occasional basis.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
76,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"On China CRE, my co mments this morning were really about the massive policy correction that has taken place over the last 18 months in commercial real estate in China.  It has really impacted very heavily the real estate market.  Do I think that big negative correction in the market has been delivered and do I expect further negative correction?  No. I think what we’re now into is the workout phase of that policy correction.  Equally, I think I said this morning I don’t see a big swing back into positive policy territory for comm ercial real estate.  I see it as fine-tuning from this low base. So what I’m talking about is the market as a whole – the commercial real estate market in China – a massive correction down.  I think we’re at the bottom of that correction phase and we’re no w in a gradual reclimb back out, with possible policy tweaks taking place, but as you quite rightly say, they’re not going to be big swings back up in policy correction.  They’re going to be smaller policy correction s taking place, as we’ve seen in recent w eeks. Now what does that mean for ECLs for banks, both domestically and internationally?  Those ECLs have and could still emerge over time, but I think the market itself has bottomed, and now we’re in a period of readjustment for the new norm, and I don’t  see a big readjustment back up.  From our point of view on ECLs, I think we feel, as Georges has said, we’ve got good coverage ratios on the unsecured book – the 50% of our offshore book that is SOE -related or POE -related.  We do not see that same policy co rrection affecting the SOEs the way it’s affected the POEs, so we don’t see necessarily a downside on that at this stage, and on those POEs in that 50% I talked about, those POEs are largely either secured or they’re not in the residential sector.  They’re in CRE and other forms of the sector. So from our point of view, we feel well -provisioned at this stage.  It’s not to say that there aren’t potential problems on the horizon from an ECL point of view for the industry, but we feel as though we’re well -positioned.  I suppose my comment was on the market as a whole, in that there’s been such a massive correction.  I think we’re now in a gradual rebuild, but that gradual rebuild will take time and there will be the potential for the industry to bear some further  losses, and we are keeping a close eye on that and what it means for us, but we think we’re well - provisioned at the Q3 level.  We’re probably going to take some more of our plausible downside scenario in Q4, but as Georges said earlier, we think that we’ve  got the capacity within our overall guidance on ECL of 40 basis points to absorb any further charges we may or may not take in Q4.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
77,qa,8.0,,Rob Noble,Analyst,Deutsche Bank,"Just on the treasury sales, you’ve announced another potential $400 million in Q4.  Why not do th em all in Q3?  What’s the advantage of waiting if you’re just going to realise a loss and do it now?  Why not just do them all now? Secondly, just a little bit more on China – what’s the sensitivity of the balance sheet to rates in China, and how concerned  are you about the rate differential between China and Hong Kong? What are the moving parts of that differential on all of the businesses, not just the commercial side?  Thanks.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
78,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"On your first point, this is a matter of phasing it in time so that we’re doing it thoughtfully, carefully, we’re evaluating the impact every time we do an activity , so we didn’t put a cut -off, per se, for Q3 and Q4.  As you can see , the numbers don’t follow a given symmetry.  It’s just a matter of where we are on the journey when we cut off the books on 30 September , but we carry this activity throughout , and we look for the right market opportunities to do it.  I think this is the way we look at it. With regards to your second point, a couple of things I can share  here.  The first one is the rate sensitivity of China.  So, just to give you an indication, the impact of the China NIM on our HBAP, or our Asia NIM, is about three basis points , so the fact that we have some rate compression in China , simply because of the  policy rates compression  – this has affected our overall Asia NIM by a couple of basis points.  That’s the quantum or the magnitude given , obviously , the size and scale we have in Hong Kong versus the size and scale we have in mainland China and other geog raphies. The second one to call ou t is that the rate differential  – we expect it to remain for a matter of many quarters, probably a couple of years, which does mean that mainland Chinese customers borrowing offshore in Hong Kong will probably remain subd ued for the next couple of years because it’s much cheaper for them to borrow at lower rates in RMB , and  this headwind is likely to continue for the next couple of years. Now, on the flipside, again because of the rate differential, the growth in wealth t hat we observe in Hong Kong is obviously a positive and a beneficiary of the rate differential , so the fact that we’re seeing more wealth build -up in Hong Kong, the fact that we’re seeing more demand for our insurance products and capabilities in Hong Kong , also reflects the fact that , for mainland Chinese, for some of them and subject to the quotas they’re allowed to do, etc, it is interesting. It’s an attractive proposition to invest offshore because they’re getting great pickup.  So we’re seeing the benef its of that when we talk about our insurance business in Hong Kong and our new business CSM, while we’re seeing the challenge on the other side. Look, all this , at the end , to say is we remain very optimistic in the medium to long  term on both Hong Kong a nd mainland China, and we just need to see some of the short -term difficulties play out specifically in mainland China, specifically in the real estate sector, until we recover and are able to see some of the momentum back on positive growth there.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
79,qa,,2.0,Andre W Coombs,management,HSBC,"Just a quick one, firstly  – you’ve reiterated the greater than $35 billion NII guidance.  In the past, you’ve talked about being comfortable with consensus, which is obviously above that, $36.5 billion , so if I could just push you as to  whether you are still comfortable with the consensus. And t hen, second question  – buybacks and how you’re thinking about those.  Obviously , a step change today going from $2 billion to $3 billion for the next quarter.  Pro forma, for the buybacks and for France retail, you’re looking at a 14.2 % CET1 ratio, still within your target range.  You’ve said 2024 RoTE  similar to 2023, payout ratio for the dividend similar to 2023 , so the only delta seems to be loan growth, where you’re still talking cautious short  term but aiming for mid -single digits in medium  term. So, when we’re thinking about the buyback going forward, is it a trade -off with that loan growth? Is it a case of , if the loan growth goes to mid -single digits, you go back to $2 billion, whereas if it stays low single digit , you stay at $3 billion ? Conceptua lly, how are you thinking about the buyback?",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
80,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"On your first question, NII guidance, I can reaffirm  we’re still comfortable with the 2023 consensus.  As you look into 2024, we haven’t given guidance yet, apart from the mid -teens RoTE , but I ’d like to just point out two things just to keep in mind.  The first one is, again, Banking NII would be a better guide of how our earnings will behave with rates , so look at NII in combination with the funding cost s of the trading book and immunise, there fore, your analysis from how much we end up channelling or not in terms of funding to the trading book activities. And then,  the second one, just to keep in mind, is the disposal of Canada and France, which will both contribute to an annualised $1.5 bill ion of NII , which will obviously not be there when the sale is complete.  And finally, balance sheet growth at some stage in 2024, where we start resuming the expectation for our balance sheet to grow.  That in the broad sense , is how we should look at for 2 024. Again, we’re not guiding, but we’re giving you some tools that you can do your analysis.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
81,qa,9.0,,In Terms Of Buyback,Analyst,a couple of things,"first, the reason we announced a $3 billion buyback  – certainly because we have the capital to support it, but equally , because we have an extended period to do it.  We mentioned that this is an intent to do it up to February results.  That gives us four months.  So I’ll definitely encourage you not to look at $3 billion as the new $2 billion ; it is not. It is a reflection of the fact that we’re aiming for – well, we have a longer period ahead of us, four months instead of three, and we’re aiming to see if we can get up to $3 billion during that period.  It’s the refore a specific consequence of this length of the period that is ahead of us for that buyback. Look, I continue saying it remains our intention to perform a rolling series of share buybacks, as long as  the capital supports it.  We look at our forecast , and our capital build up  does seem to be reasonably realistic in our forecast, and therefore , it remains our intention to do the series of buybacks.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
82,qa,10.0,,About The Question Of Trade -Off Between Buybacks And Loan Growth,Analyst,a couple of things,"first, as you know, t he proceeds of the sale of Canada will give us a buyback runway regardless of loan growth because the proceeds less the priority use for special dividend will still allow for a few billion dollars of additional buyback , and i rrespective of our loans , so that will give us runway for loan growth. Second, I just need to also highlight, when we talk about mid -single -digit loan growth, we’re not saying mid -single -digit RWA growth.  Some of our loans, specifically in the mortgage space, which is a big component for our loan growth, have lower RWA density , and therefore benefit from lower RWAs, and therefore , our RWA growth is expected to tra il loan growth, absent credit reviews.  And t herefore , we don’t see that there is a competition between loan growth and buyba cks. I think this is a fine balance between the two and an appropriate trade -off between the two. I’ll move straight to the closing remarks.  Thank you, everyone, for joining us today and for your questions.  I want to end by reiterating that we’ve had a go od nine months.  All of our businesses have been performing well.  We have delivered an annualised return on tangible equity of 17.1% when you exclude strategic transactions and really remain committed to tight cost discipline. We’re investing in growth whil e we’re also supporting dividends and buybacks, and I will be looking forward to speaking with you all again soon.  So have a good morning or afternoon, everyone.  Thank you very much.",2023,Q3,False,231030-3q-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
83,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Gurpreet.  So we have not at this stage giving guidance for full year ’25.  I point you to the guidance we’ve given for full year ’24 of at least $41 billion in banking NII and mid -teens return on tangible equity.  In terms of bank ing NII sensitivity, we do have a slide at the back end of the deck which I can point you to, which shows for the further 100 basis points and for future years what’s the impact.  What I can point you to is, number one, we continue to intend to increase, su bject to market conditions but as of today , to increase the structural hedge, second the volume of the structural hedge.  Second, we continue to intend to increase the weighted average life of the structur al hedge, having now reached 2.8 years and with the intent to take it to about three years, both of which should give you a sense of how we’re mitigating rate impacts into ’24 an ’25 from the structur al hedging activity. With regards gain on Canada, so $10 billion proceeds, $4 billion will be considered – well, we committed to consider as a priority use for a special dividend.  The residual $6 billion will constitute about 0.8% or 0.9% additional CET1, which very likely will be at the Q1 outcome. We will continue looking at opportunities, but it remains our intent, subject to market conditions, our capital position, regulatory position, it remains our intent to continue a rolling series of share buy-backs beyond this one.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
84,qa,2.0,,Andrew Coombs,Analyst,Citi,"Morning from London.  Good afternoon, to yourselves.  Two questions, please.  Firstly, I just want to clarify the messaging on the banking NII outlook.  If I rewind 12 months ago, I think you gave guidance for greate r than $36 billion of reported NII, but then this time a year ago you said you weren’t seeking to move consensus, which at the time was actually higher.  It was at $37 billion.  If I fast forward to today, you’re guiding to greater than $41 billion.  If I loo k at consensus to NII, I adjust the trading book funding costs, it looks like consensus banking NII is around $44 billion.  So are you seeking to rebase consensus banking NII or should we put greater emphasis on your ‘greater than’ within that $41  billion target?  So that’s my first question.  I just want to clarify that messaging. My second question is around the hedge.  Thank you for the extra disclosure on the $478 billion nominal and the 2.8 years average life.  Can you give us an idea of both the average y ield on that book and also what it’s currently rolling off at and what you’re aiming to roll it back on at, if you are extending the duration out?  Thank you,",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
85,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"If I could jus t add a couple of comments, one reason we’re not giving a statement regarding consensus is, as Georges says, we think consensus is a mixture of updated thinking that has adjusted for some of these annualisation effects of disposals and other things, and so me consensus hasn’t adjusted for that at the moment.  There’s a little bit of apples and pears in today’s consensus position.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
86,qa,3.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"I have two questions here.  The first question is I want to clarify the mid -teen RoTE guidance is a normalised RoTE.  That means that the RoTE exclud es Canada disposal gain.  I want to clarify that, because if that is the case in mid -teen RoTE then, if you look at the company comp iled consensus the RoTE is 17.4%.  I just calculated on a very top-down basis you’re excluding the disposal gain and consensus, RoTE is roughly a round mid-teens as well.  The thing is that I think that means the HSBC guidance and consensus is quite in line in terms of normalised RoTE, but on NII , on costs , in previous questions I think there may be a bit of reset in expectation s. I think the 5% cost  is a bit higher than where consensus was indicating.  Does that mean that you are quite optimistic on non -NII growth, i.e. fee growth?  Or maybe you have a different view on asset quality, and hence the ECL charges. This is the first part of the big question. The second part is on BoCom.  May I know what triggered the $3 billion impairment charges ? As China’s yield is declining – they just announced 25 basis point on five -year LPR cuts and all those – should we be expecting more impairments on the BoC om investment?  Basically I want to see if there is any one -time event that triggered this impairment, or if it is going to be a normalised part of the business.  I think in the statement you clearly stated that that would have no impact on dividend and shar eholders’ return.  I believe this is related to the $14  billion capital deduction which you have already made on Associates . I think that is primarily BoCom.  Can you explain a bit of that mechanism?  I think today’s share price reaction is partly factoring i n the kind of concern that there is an ongoing impairment on BoCom that will affect the company’s ability to deliver shareholders’ return.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
87,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Katherine, taking them in the order you said, first, the mid -teens RoTE is excluding notable items , therefore it is excluding the gain on Canada.  Your calculation is correct.  In terms of NII and cost, a couple of things to share.  We recognise the cost assessment. In terms of banking NII, we have given the guidance here.  I mentioned it in my earlier spe ech, but I will just point you that our banking NII sensitivity has reduced by more than half from the full-year 2022 due to, among other parameters, our structur al hedging activity, so therefore the rate impact on our banking NII is reduced commensurately . Equally, we do have some anticipation of volume growth if and when rates start decreasing , which is now planned for H2, and this is why we have some positive outlook for H2.  If rates decrease, volume could pick up, subject to economic conditions, etc, b ut that’s the assessment we have made today. Thirdly, on the non -rate-sensitive earnings, I’ve called out Transaction Banking and Wealth earlier.  Between them they constitute about 80% of our non -rate-sensitive earnings.  One has grown 5%, 2022 to 2023, an d the other one has grown 7%, and therefore we do feel there is momentum in both these areas for continued growth.  I didn’t talk about the residual 20%, but in the residual 20% , capital market activities, for instance, is included.  Again, in a different ra te environment we have grounds to believe this can also pick up.  So yes, we are comfortable with the momentum we have in the revenue. Can I point you on one thing about cost s? We called it out.  5% for 2024 has a flow -through impact from inflation in 2023.  2023 experienced high inflation.  There’s some flow through, some adjustments, including wage inflation, which we anticipate to do in 2024.  Based on current outlook of inflation that parameter is easing as we look forward beyond 2024.  Without giving you any guidance for 2025, the inflationary component flow through into 2025 does look like easing from where we stand today, looking at 2024 outlook for inflation. If I move on to your second question about BoCom, this is a – we do talk about the value -in- use model.  It’s following the Hong Kong accounting standards, international accounting standards.  Without boring you with the accounting details, the AR&A has many pages, which we can point you to, that explain it.  It feeds into parameters all essentially in  the public domain, including macro data, other factors, including analysts’ comments.  It feeds in through the model.  The model is not highly intuitive, but the outcome is the outcome and we’ve been consistently applying it for umpteen quarters now, and th erefore w ill apply for Q4.  It is very difficult to predict what the model will give us in Q1.  We will take into account the information we receive over the course of Q1, and we will run the model as we do every quarter and consistently apply the outcome. Finally, capital deduction.  I think this is a very important point.  Your math, Katherine , is correct. There is about $14 billion sitting today in our regulatory capital deductions, because they sit above our threshold.  Therefore, you could legitimately ass ume that there is that much of buffer against any impairments we face in our financial holdings, BoCom being one of them.  The other one is insurance.  That’s the two, essentially, and therefore you can legitimately assume that the compensation we would get from any hypothetical future impairment will be commensurate, given the size of our threshold deductions at this stage.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
88,qa,4.0,,Joseph Dickerson,Analyst,Jefferies,"Just cutting to the chase on some of the questions that have come through on the NII guide, I think you ca n probably get a sense that there’s some reasonable confusion about what the message is for the 2024 baseline.  If we work back from your clean mid -teens RoTE you’ve given us some guidance on cost, you’ve given us some guidance on credit.  It’s getting into a baseline revenue number of about $64 billion.  I think consensus is $63.5 billion or thereabouts.  Are you comfortable with that consensus number? Are you seeking to change that with this guide?  That is question number one. Question number two is why the focus on banking NII versus total NII?  Because there’s going to be, as rates come down, a lot of moving parts on the trading book funding cost dynamic. Indeed, if I look at your annual report you’ve actually got a benefit coming through in the USD bucket f rom rates falling in terms of the aggregate NII.  Why are you trying to distinguish between those two conceptually for us?  Again, it’s creating a fair amount of confusion with investors.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
89,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Yes, so I recognise your arithmetic,  Yes, I agree w ith your arithmetic. This being said, I cannot give you guidance on total revenue, otherwise I’ll be giving you guidance on our full profitability, but we recognise your arithmetic.  A couple of things just to highlight for your consideration.  The first one  is our guidance for banking NII is not $41 billion, it’s at least $41 billion, factoring in elements of uncertainty that I called out earlier.  That’s for full-year 2024. You do have the building blocks for cost and for ECL, and then the residual part, if you want, of our earnings story is the non -NII component excluding the gains from Canada.  As I said earlier, about 80% of it is generated from Transaction Banking and Wealth , both of which do have momentum, both of which are areas where we continu e investing, both in terms of digital capabilities and client servicing, and in terms of net new invested assets.  We are excited about the potential of these two businesses, and we believe our mid -teens RoTE is not based on unreasonable growth in these areas, it’s based on momentum growth in these areas. Maybe I can point you to our net new invested assets, $84 billion for the year, up from $80 billion last year, up from $64 billion the year before.  Clearly we’re acquiring new assets, but equally,  as you’ve seen, Asset Management and Private Banking grew double -digit percentage points.  That’s also partly due to the valuation.  Our AUM is also increasing because the underlying valuation is improving, which is therefore a generator of fees commensurat ely, subject to market conditions as we go forward. Just on your second point, so we’re guiding we would like to move to banking NII guidance. We recognised last year we have moved from NII into a dual guidance of NII and funding costs of the trading book . We think it is much simpler to look at our overall rate -sensitive earnings through a banking NII lens.  The shift from one to the other – which is a zero -sum game, so it moves from one to the other – is reflective of business decisions as regards how much  of our funding we would want to give to the trading book based on various parameters, including opportunities in the trading book, as well as opportunities for loan growth.  We think that it would be too noisy if we have to really manage both on a separate  basis.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
90,qa,5.0,,Benjamin Toms,Analyst,RBC,"Firstly, on cost of risk, in relation to your guidance of 40 basis points is there still a plausible downside to this guidance, or does the 40 basis points encapsulate that plausible downside?  Secondly, on loan growth, I know y ou’re cautious on loan growth in the first half of 2024.  We expect growth to pick up in H2, but for 2024 as a whole can you just confirm you expect net growth in the balance sheet?  It sounds like you do, because you earlier described volumes and the potent ial tailwind to NII.  Could you narrow down how much lending we should expect for growth for this year?",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
91,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"The cost of risk of 40 basis points encapsulates everything we currently foresee in our balance sheet.  We have not communicated a furt her plausible downside on the China commercial real estate portfolio booked in Hong Kong, because we believe at this stage that, number one, we’re well provisioned for this portfolio after the provisioning that’s taken place last year.  Number two, we also have less concerns going forwards on our residual exposure in that portfolio.  I can point you to our exposure is now at $6.2 billion.  That’s down $3.1 billion from full -year 2022, so therefore we have a reduced level of concern.  I can walk you through, if needed, how our ECL positioning is in this portfolio, but we’re comfortable, and no additional concerns than we called out last year. On the long growth, yes, our expectation is that as economic conditions continue improving and the interest rate environm ent becomes more supportive we would expect to see loan growth.  We continue to guide on a medium term basis to mid -single digit percentage points, loan growth and balance sheet growth.  It’s very difficult to forecast what H2 will look like, but that is par t of our projections.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
92,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I think our view is, given the shift in the interest rate cycle and the shift in inflation, we’ll start to see more economic confidence or business confidence and consumer confidence in the second half.  We’re not expectin g significant growth in the balance sheet in the first half.  If you start to see that kick in the second half you’re unlikely to see full -year mid-single -digit growth in 2024.  You’re going to see a proportion of that start to kick in in the second half of the year, and then you’ll see it kicking in more strongly in 2025 and beyond.  I think in your modelling you’re probably looking at limited growth in the first half and growth starting to come back in the second half.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
93,qa,6.0,,Robert Noble,Analyst,Deutsche Bank,"What was the size of the hedge last year?  How much has it ramped up this year?  Can you give us an idea of what the currency mix of hedges and whether there’s any duration differences between those currencies as well?  Secondly, what exactly is, in the quarter, the c ashflow hedge reclassification, the impact it had from transferring from NII to non -NII? What exactly was that?  Lastly, the timing of the special dividend post the Canada sale, will it come with Q1 results if the deal is announced prior to release, or is i t not linked to the results announcement at all?",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
94,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Robert, we’ve added north of $80 billion to our hedge this year in terms of bond notional, a little bit more in terms of other derivative notional, and that’s on top of an $80 billion we’v e added over Q4 and starting in Q3 in 2022.  That should give you an idea of also what is the quantum we could reasonably do in 2024 if the market conditions remain supportive for the hedge. In terms of duration, the obvious one to call out is we can certa inly hedge on our weighted average life for slightly longer currencies such as the pound, the US dollar, and to some extent the euro.  We have an inability to hedge in any reasonable size or shape – and this is due to structural market – our Hong Kong dolla r exposure.  Our Hong Kong dollar exposure hedge would remain much lower, and therefore our exposure in Hong Kong dollar would remain more sensitive to the rate outlook compared to the other currencies. In terms of Canada sale, you could expect in Q1, subj ect to completion – which is now planned to be on track to be by the end of Q1 – you would expect to see a jump of 1.2%, 1.3% in our CET1 ratio.  The special dividend, which we’re committed to consider, would happen afterwards.  Our best estimate is H1, but frankly, afterwards as soon as we can, subject to all necessary approvals.  That will drop the CET1 by about 0.5, with a resulting net of around 0.8 in our CET1 after the dividend.  We will update you at the Q1 results about the special dividend considerations.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
95,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Yes, it’s probably not possible to close at the end of March and declare in the same quarter, just for accounting reasons, so it’s likely to be - close at the end of Q1 and probably declare Q2, and then pay following that.  That’s likely to be the accounting requirement, just to get the books closed for Q1, and then declaring Q2 is the most likely outcome.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
96,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,Probably with Q2 results.,2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
97,qa,,4.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"It’s our intent to do it as soon as we can.  I can take you through the process, but there is a process we have to go through and the timelines will need to just flow through.  But we’ll confirm the timing at the Q1 results.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
98,qa,,5.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Yes, that reclassification is an error in reporting.  It related to one geography where some of our cashf low hedges were booked wrongly between NII and non - NII, and we’ve done this correction.  It has affected one jurisdiction.  The amount is a full -year amount, so the $0.3 billion charge we’ve taken reflects a full -year correction, of which around a fourth rel ates to actually the fourth quarter.  The rest is a catch up for the first three quarters of the year.  Just to be clear, Robert, the total income is not affected.  This is just a reclassification of income from one line item to another line item.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
99,qa,7.0,,Alastair Warr,Analyst,Autonomous,"Just a quick question on the ECL charges. Things have subsided a bit on the China property side.  Obviously that’s nice for you guys to see, but a few cracks popping up in Mexico.  Is that something  you characterise as cycle stuff that might be going somewhere from here we need to keep an eye on, or something a little more one -off?",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
100,qa,8.0,,Perlie Mong,Analyst,KBW,"Just a couple.  I guess the first one is costs.  What can you do with costs in a falling rate environment?  Because you’ve talked about management actions; I guess the reason I’m asking is because this year I believe all -in it’s about 7% year -on-year, and of course it includes a lot of one -offs like levies in this quarter and SVB earlier in the year, but on the basis that it crept up from plus 2% year -on-year, which is I think the first slide you talked about, the 2023 guidance, t o the end result being something like 6%, 7%.  I’m just wondering what levers you have in your cost management action pocket to combat costs if revenue were to disappoint?  That’s number one. The second question is I think we all talked a lot about what mig ht happen to revenues in various rate environments.  Also, just thank you for the disclosures on the structural hedge.  I guess stepping back a little bit from that, just a couple of clarifications.  In a falling rate environment, how would you expect things like customer behaviour to respond?  Things like deposit mix shift like in Hong Kong.  I guess the mix shift towards term happened quite a lot faster in Hong Kong versus the UK on the way up, and it’s still ongoing from the disclosures today.  If rates  were to turn, would you expect that flip back to be pretty quick, we’re still in a pretty high rate environment, or do you still expect the mix shift to continue? I think you talked about things like capital markets might outperform in a falling rate environment.  I guess, on an underlying basis, just how do you see that?  Because capital markets and loan growth, etc, I guess a lot of it’s also to do with the underlying GDP as well, and there’s still a lot of uncertainty on the horizon.  So, even if rates we re to come down, just how quickly do you think these benefits can come through?",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
101,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"We’ll tackle the cost first, and then maybe we come to the revenue second, and I’ll do a few introductory comments on how I see revenues.  On costs, Georges, do you  want to just do a quick analysis of reported costs, 2023 versus 2022, target basis, and then reported 2023 to 2024 target basis?  I might just add a few comments at the end of that on cost levers, the way I look at it.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
102,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So, on the reporte d basis, 2023 to 2022, we were down 1%.  The growth against our target of 6% also is reflective of the fact that a lot of the restructuring costs we’ve taken in 2022 did not repeat.  We’ve guided how the costs have increased from our initial 3%, where we inc luded severance, into the 6%.  Obviously the last percent this quarter was unexpected.  The rules for the FDIC special assessment came in November.  The earlier draft rules we’ve seen in September indicated we would be incurring that cost in 2024 and 2025, bu t the rules that came in November had a different accounting treatment and accelerated all that, as did all other banks who were subject to the FDIC special assessment.  I just want to call it out that this one was a particular event we called out. As we look going forward for 2024, we’re looking at a 5% on the target basis growth.  This is excluding the cost reduction we will get from exiting the French retail business and the Canada business.  Between the two of them we will be exiting on an annual basis a n equivalent of $1 billion, just shy of that, which is around 3%.  That would be a reduction in cost of 3%, but that is excluded from the way we’re managing our target basis. Just explaining how we’re coming up with this cost – and then Noel can talk you t hrough the levers to manage our cost s – first there is this flow -through inflation from 2023.  There is some wage adjustments we need to take into account for 2024 based on the flow -through inflation from 2023.  That component, we feel, is easing, and hopefu lly in the outlook of inflation will ease as we go out of 2024 into the future.  There is continued spend in technology and continued investment in some of the growth areas, organic growth areas.  That’s particularly true in Wealth . That spending is partly o ffset by a number of cost management actions, some of which we have taken already such as the severance programme, which will have a flow -through benefit into 2024, and other actions we’re planning to take. Just before Noel talks to levers, we’re looking at cost as in growth on the target basis in dollar numbers.  We’re not looking at our cost s on a cost efficiency ratio basis.  There may be fluctuation s to our revenue, but frankly in a year like 2023 our CER has dropped from 65% in 2022 to 48%, so we will t olerate some volatility on the CER , as long as we’re managing our cost in a spend dollar basis.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
103,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I know this is an important topic.  Let me reiterate up front that we remain committed to cost discipline.  The question is, how are we achieving cost discipline?  We obviously look for efficiencies in the existing organisation.  We invest in tech to drive efficiencies in our processing costs, and we’re continuing to do that.  We invest in simplification of the portfolio, closing down busines ses organically, exiting costs organically, but we’re also exiting costs through M&A, and in our target basis we adjust for that.  I don’t want you to lose sight. We’ll be exiting $1  billion of cost in 2024 as a function of M&A decisions; portfolio choices  made for good, strategic reasons.  $300  million of that was the exit of our French retail business.  It’s a business that was losing money, so we’ve exited $300  million of cost by selling and it’s going to be profit accretive, because that business was a lo ss-making business.  We’ve exited $800  million of cost in Canada through selling – we hope to by the end of Q1.  Not tempting fate. Why are we doing it?  Because that business in our hands was probably valued at around one-times book and we were able to gener ate two -and-a-half-times book, over two -and-a half - times book.  We sold it because it was worth more to somebody else than to us and we’re redistributing the proceeds of that to our shareholders, because we thought it was the right answer for our shareholde rs. We do internally generated cost efficiency and externally generated cost efficiency for good, strategic reasons and we’ll continue to pull those levers. The other thing is we do believe an organisation like us, with the growth opportunities we have, we should invest and we made a decision last year, on our original cost target of 3%, to actually move it up to 4% because we were continuing to invest in tech.  Tech today, as proportion  of our overall cost base, is now around 22%.  When I took over four yea rs ago, tech as a percentage of our cost base was 16%.  We’re trying to remain disciplined on cost s and change the nature of the cost s to be a much more strategic cost component in driving future enhancements for customer propositions and efficiencies. That’s the thinking we have.  You have our absolute commitment, both myself and Georges, and the management teams, we will keep cost discipline.  We’ll invest and save at the same time.  We have to acknowledge the flow through of inflation, but the other compone nt we made a decision on in 2023, given the very, very strong performance the business had, we thought it was right to go from 4% to 5% by topping up the variable pay pool by an extra percent.  We thought that was the right decision for our people, so we th ink it’s the right cost decision , but it has inflated our costs compared to our original target of 3% and I think we had to do the right thing by our people on that. And then the final 1%, taking us to the 6% number you talked about, was unexpected.  When we talked to you in Q3, we didn’t expect that final 1% to come through for FDIC and bank levies. The FDIC was probably a timing issue.  It was going to come through in ’24 or ’25, but it actually surprisingly came through in the final quarter of the year.  You’ve got our commitment.  We’ll remain with tight cost discipline. Let us now turn to revenue and let me maybe, again, decompose how we think about revenue growth outside of NII or interest income.  Clearly, the great work that Georges and the team have done on hedging and the further structural hedges we’ve put in place and the extra duration is a mitigant to the downside.  I look at the opportunity on the upside in two components. One is our core USP of international banking.  We have, within our franchi se, clients who operate in more countries than we currently bank them, be they personal clients or corporate clients.  We still have huge amounts of untapped opportunity to further penetrate that client base and every time – you saw in the revenue multiplie rs – we take a client to multiple jurisdictions, a revenue multiplier of five times domestic revenue in wholesale banking, three times domestic revenue in retail banking.  That is an internal generated revenue opportunity, not dependent on GDP.  That’s in ou r hands. The second revenue opportunity you talked about in your analysis is countercyclical and I do believe – I’ve been around 37 years, so I’ve seen some cycles  - and I do believe lower inflation leads to lower interest rates.  Lower interest rates lead  to a pick-up in economic activity, normally with a lag effect, and I do believe that pick up will have a positive impact on capital market s activity in our Global Banking and Markets business.  I think it will have a big and positive impact on demand for c orporate lending and personal lending in our wholesale and retail business – lag effect, as I’ve talked about – and, thirdly, I think consumers will start to shift out of cash into invested assets, and that’s a huge opportunity for our Wealth business. You’ve seen our track record on our ability to attract net new invested assets over the last three years – $84 billion, $80  billion, $64  billion.  That’s where we’re very focused and a lot of our investment is going. It's for us, the management team, to deliv er on that.  We know we’ve got to deliver on tight costs and cost discipline and we’ve got to deliver on revenue diversification.  My final comment on this is I’m grateful that we’ve had four years of transformation, because we now are through the majority o f that transformation focus – the majority – and we’re now focused on that growth opportunity and we’re in a fortunate position that all of the hard work of the last four years has given us that platform for growth.  Thank you.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
104,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Aman, what, historically, we have been giving you is NII sensitivity but, as you know, there is a big component that is rate sensitive in our earnings, which doesn’t sit in NII.  It sits in non -NII under funding cost  of the trading book and what we have been doing – and hopefully that slide was meant to clarify, but I’m assuming now we have to take probably more offline with you to go through it. What we have been doing is showing the sensitivity of both the NII to r ates, as well as the sensitivity of the funding cost of trading book to rates, and then giving you the full sensitivity of banking NII to rates, because that would be a better representation of how sensitive our earnings are to rates and that will take awa y the noise that is created by ongoing commercial decisions on how much funds we provide the trading activity or take away from the trading activity in -year.  It cleanses that information out, because it’s just giving you the total that is relevant for our overall earnings.  That sensitivity has reduced by more than half over the year, in part – at least for 30%, 40% of it – due to our structural hedging activity. With regards the fee income, you mentioned FX having a good and decent income.  A couple of thin gs about GB&M to call out.  First, the PBT of GB&M was more than 20%, 25% higher year-on-year, so clearly a business that increases PBT.  Its return on tangible equity has exceed ed our cost of capital.  It’s something that has been not achieved for many years . It’s above 12% and, to be also fair to GB&M, its return on tangible equity only increased by about 10% because there are some Corporate Centre -related adjustments which have affected them. Otherwise, their return on tangible equity could have followed th e trend of PBT growth because their RWAs were down they could have seen close to 20%, and therefore well above their cost of equity.  We’re comfortable with how the business continues to transform itself, focusing on their strength s and adjusting their foot print, and that momentum continues. In terms of distribution, first it remains our ambition to have a rolling series of share buybacks as long as our capital supports it, and the outlook for capital does support it, but this remains subject to ongoing mac roeconomic developments and regulatory approvals, etc.  One thing to call out with regards our bolt -on acquisitions is, when we look at an acquisition, obviously the first parameter is making sure it’s a strategic and accelerating growth area that we strate gically want to grow, but the second parameter that we also use equally is that it is accretive compared to a share buyback.  We’re making sure that, when we go for a bolt -on acquisition, the investment is more accretive than the investment in buying our ow n shares, and this would be a disciplined measure, to make sure we’re doing M&A that is both strategic and accretive. Finally, in terms of other parts of the distribution, around 50% dividend payout ratio for 2024, which we reaffirmed, and then if you wan t to have a benchmark on where we would operate on a target basis, our CET1 ratio, it will be in the 14 to 14.5 % range, which we reiterate, but we recognise we may not need that target, because we may be well above it for a few quarters, in particular than ks to Canada , but also to our own capital generation.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
105,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"The pace at which we can get back down to that target is going to be dictated by two things: the capacity of the market to take buybacks and, second, are there alternative uses of that capi tal to support growth?  But I think it’s fair to say there’s going to be excess of our CET1 over our target range, more in the near term because possibly the capacity of the market to take the volume of buybacks that could be done.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
106,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"In the strategic areas, certainly – the areas we called out, such as foreign exchange, such as payments, such as supporting trade.  We do expect also growth in, as Noel mentioned earlier, capital market s activity if and when rates come down.  We see progress in this area of the fee  income space.  Clearly, GB&M has focused itself and the message is that, in the areas where they’re focusing strategically – yes. In the areas where they have exited or are downsizing, then this would be non -strategic areas that they would continue doing d ownsizing.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
107,qa,,4.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I just wanted to say thank you all for joining.  I also want to just say clearly I’m really pleased that we’ve had a record profit year in 2023 and the best returns that we’ve had for a decade.  Really  pleased we were able to reward our loyal shareholders with $19  billion of capital returns to our shareholders in respect of 2023.  This included the best full -year dividend since 2008 and three share buybacks.  We still expect to have substantial distribution capacity going forward and we are committed to cost discipline.  I want you in no doubt on that. We expect to have further opportunities to grow revenue and we’re very focused on it, because we’ve come out of that four -year transformation phas e with a very strong focus on growth.  We continue to target a mid -teens ROTE in 2024 and I just want to say thank you for joining us and Neil and the team are available should you need them.  I hope to see many of you here in Hong Kong in April, when we hol d our inaugural Global Investment Summit . Looking forward to being back here at the end of March and for the investment summit in early April.  Thank you all very much.",2023,Q4,False,240222-4q-annual-results-2023-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
108,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"I’ll start with your first question, Raul.  First, on RWA outlook, of the RWA growth we called on a quarter -on-quarter basis $24 billion.  First, about 40% of it relate to lending and other asset growth, and as you can see from our lending book , we’ve grown our lending book by $5 billion.  There are a number of areas of growth tha t contributed to around 40% of it, $9 billion.  Then we’ve had a $5 billion market risk RWA growth; this is due to a pickup in MSS activity against a subdued Q4, and it’s more in line with their activity levels in the first three quarters of the year, if yo u want.  This is the normalisation of Markets activity. And then there is $7 billion which we classified broadly as asset quality.  Now, asset quality, first, it is a continuous exercise.  We do this portfolio monitoring review on a regular basis.  We have recognised, across a number of geographies and a number of sectors, certain names which we’ve decided to downgrade on the basis that the interest rate pressure on their cash flows has been more severe.  You will not see an equivalent of that downgra de in ECL, and that’s mainly because for many of these customers their balance sheet remains strong, so we’re comfortable with their balance sheet and therefore there is no ECL implication from this downgrade.  But just closing the loop on this RWA downgrad e, you will see some of it materialised in our stage three loans, where we increased our stage three loans by about $2 billion, and that’s exactly the mapping of some of this asset quality. With regards how we look forward, we’re very comfortable where we  are today.  Our credit metrics remain solid.  As I say, the balance sheet s of our customers remain strong for a number of them, for at least the exposure that is collateralised.  We’re very comfortable with the level of collateralisation and the LTV, and the refore we do not foresee at this stage today any additional action we should be taking.  We will obviously monitor the book on a regular basis as we always do. Noel?",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
109,qa,4.0,,Jason Napier,Analyst,UBS,"First of all, just to echo the best wishes, Noel, for the next chapter of your career and private life; I think a well -earned rebalancing.  Georges, I just wondered whet her you’d talk a little bit within the context of ‘higher for longer ’. You’ve referenced subdued loan demand in Hong Kong due to the differentials in interest rates, and I just wonder whether – one of your peers has spoken at some length about looking forw ard to a change in asset mix as loan demand comes back as a way to defend margins and revenue, so I wonder whether you might talk a little bit about whether that’s a material part of the plan and what you think that means for revenue evolution in the next few quarters?  I think I certainly was somewhat surprised that we didn’t see an upgrade to Banking NII guidance this quarter.  I know you don’t rebalance every quarter, but I just wonder whether you might talk to the role that ‘higher for longer ’ has on asse t mix and then on credit demand. And then secondly, Wealth was phenomenal in Q1.  I know there’s a part of the business that’s quite closely linked to what goes on with the Hang Seng Index, which is now up 20% in a short space of time, but I just wonder wh ether you could talk to the sustainability of those run rates. Is that the strategy delivering the net new money flows, or is there an element of market vol atility in there that we should be a little bit careful about?",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
110,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Perlie, if I can just give you an indication, what we are seeing at the moment is a very strong level of activity of China corporates expanding across the rest of Asia.  Our outbound activity from mainland China to the rest of the world is seeing a signific ant increase in activity over the past 12 months.  We’ve seen that trend continue in the first quarter of this year.  A lot of people talk about inward investment into China slowing down, but what I would say is outward investment from China to the rest of t he world is actually picking up at quite a pace, a very significant pace.  We’re very well placed to capture that outflow, and we are capturing that outflow. Our business in mainland China performed well last year.  It’s performing well again in the first quarter of this year, and its outbound activity is performing extremely well.  We’ll give more updates on that at the half year, but we are capturing that.  That is why, actually, I think the rest of Asia is performing well on balance sheet, because a lot of it is being fed by good intra -Asia activity and outbound from mainland China.",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
111,qa,6.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"I have three questions.  The first one is on non -interest income. I look at the breakdown on non -interest income.  It seems like Wealth is doing quite we ll, but on Transaction Banking there is some weakness.  I think it’s down 9% worldwide.  Can we know what is the reason?  Should we triangulate this to the full year?  What are the drivers to that? This is the first one. The second one is on Hong Kong.  With H ong Kong relaxing LTV ratios, I think basically – not only LTV, but they relaxed the purchase requirements and the stamp duty requirements on residential properties, so I think there is a significant jump in transactions.  I was thinking that this should be  positive to mortgage s at least, and then we are big mortgage providers in Hong  Kong.  Would that have any impact on our outlook in terms of growth, particularly related to Hong Kong?  That’s the second one. And then the last one, I think, is on cost.  If I look at the first quarter I think cost is up 8%, including levy.  How should I look at this?  Are we on track to the 5% cost growth this year?",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
112,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Katherine, I was in Hong Kong recently and spoke to a number of the market partic ipants there and the developers.  Firstly, I think the change – the stamp duty arrangements in Hong Kong in March in the budget – was very well received, and it’s had a positive impact on the activity levels of sales in the Hong Kong market residential sale s. It was an extremely significant inflow of activity in the first month; that will be very beneficial to the liquidity positions of many of those developers.  We have to wait and see how that stabilises, because undoubtedly there was an element of catch up  in that first month because people were anticipating some change, therefore there was low activity in the preceding months.  I think we’ve got to see how that stabilises, but I think that is a very positive move.  It will enhance liquidity within the market , it will enhance activity in the mortgage market, but I think it’s too early to call it a trend at the moment.  I think we need to see how Q2 stabilises following those changes, but a very helpful intervention.",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
113,qa,7.0,,Andrew Coombs,Analyst,Citi,"Firstly, just to commen d Noel as well on his five years as CEO, but also to acknowledge your long stint at HSBC beforehand too.  Two questions, please.  Firstly, on the UK NIM, you’ve seen an improvement for a second consecutive quarter, another six basis points, so outperforming some of the domestic peers.  I can see your loans and deposit balances look fairly flat in that entity.  Perhaps you could just comment on what you’re seeing in terms of deposit migration, mortgage re -fi, and what’s driving that NIM improvement and how sustainable you think that improvement is going forward as well? The second one is just a clarification on Argentina.  You booked $0.5 billion in Q1, guiding to $1 billion for the full year based on last year’s experience.  Presumably what you’re therefore saying is a step down to $0.2 billion per quarter for the remainder of the year, given that you don’t expect the transaction to necessarily close until 12 months’ time?",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
114,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Again, it’s a difficult one to say, but if you just do the arithmetic of our $1 billio n expected for the full year, of which already $0.5 billion has manifested in the first quarter, a smoothed -out outcome would be the other $0.5 billion phased out evenly over three quarters, but that’s a highly volatile number so I wouldn’t use it as a for ecast.",2024,Q1,False,240502-1q-2024-hsbc-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
115,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Andrew, thanks for your questions.  I’ll take the fi rst one.  I’ve got no regrets, Andrew.  Performing this role is an absolute privilege.  You never finish with an institution like this, and that is why Georges is right to comment that you always want to do more.  There are always things you want to improve; t here’s always investment you can do to grow more revenue, to improve customer experience, improve systems and processes.  So, there’s never a notion of finishing; it should always be a notion of continuous improvement and continuous ambition. I think that’s probably the bridge from me to Georges, because I have no regrets about the last five years.  I think we’ve done a lot of good things, and I thank my colleagues for everything they’ve done, but equally you should never be complacent and think the job is finished.  The job of running an organisation as large as ours and with so much opportunity before us to further improve is never finished, and that’s the bridge over to Georges now to take it on to the next level and to continue to execute the strategy.  So, Georges, I hand over to you on both of the next two questions, please.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
116,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Noel.  Yes, Andrew.  Just echoing Noel and building on that, we’ve called out some of the key areas of our strategy.  I’ve called out Hong Kong, the UK, the international wholesale bank, which is underpinned by leading transaction banking capabilities, as well as Wealth , all of whic h have demonstrated very strong momentum, certainly over the last few years but definitely over the first half of this year.  We’re confident about the momentum. We’re confident in our ability to continue investing in them, and we’re confident also we have ample capital to support additional growth.  So, it’s just about getting continued pace in the execution of this strategy that has proved its results. On your question about the structural hedge, Andrew, $ 55 billion are expected to mature over the course of the second half at an average yield of 2.8%.  If I try to reverse- engineer your maths , and if you assume the reinvestment happens at around 3.8% with a 1% uplift, then you get $500 million, but remember this is maturities that are happening over the cours e of the half. Therefore, I think you have to average the number, and therefore you have to assume half the number as an in- year 2024 benefit from that structural hedge reinvestment, so say the half of your $0.5 billion you quoted. Also, bear in mind that we are increasing the structural hedge, subject to market conditions. We have done about $ 25 billion the first half.  It’s a good estimate of the run rate for the second half, and that is a mild headwind because we’re increasing the hedge from higher shor t-term rates into lower longer -term rates due to the inversion of the curve, so you have to take all of this into consideration when factoring in the impact for 2024 banking NII.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
117,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"I’ll ask Georges to answer the first one – I think he’s probably best – on the mid- teens and the definition on the mid- teens, and then also maybe sustainable revenue, and then I’ll cover the third.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
118,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Very good.  Thank you, Amit.  If you adjust consensus for 2025 for the impact of the loss from the sale of Argentina, which, by the way, as we communicated, now we expect by the end of the year, therefore it’s more reasonable to assume that the recycling of the foreign exchange loss of $5 billion, which has no impact on capital or on distribution –  it’s fair to assume that impact will happen in 2024, but if you adjust the consensus in 2025, you get to around 14%.  Our definition of mid -teens is broadly around 14% to 16%, so without commenting on the consensus, our mid- teens definition is broadly that 14% to 16% range. On the growing revenue on a sustainable basis, let me point you to three major indicators that are going to be important in the way we look at the future.  The first one is related to banking NII. Banking NII, firstly, has been stabilised partly with the reduction of banking NII sensitivity. If you recall, two years ago we called out $7 billion to be the impact on banking NII or on our revenue for a 100- basis -point drop in interest rates.  That number at the year -end was $3.4 billion, and that number as we reported it now is $2.7 billion, so therefore, through activities of structural hedging, but also through other methodology improvements and balance sheet composition, we have reduced the dependency of our earnings and of our banking NII to the impact of lower rates. The second component, again relating to banking NII, is that, while for a few quarter s we have seen subdued loan growth, in particular in the UK and Hong Kong wholesale markets, we have now seen stabilisation.  It’s early to call it a trend, but we are encouraged by the stabilisation we have observed, and importantly we will be more encouraged to, when we see rates coming off in the support they can have for loan growth, in particular  in these two areas that historically have been a little bit more sluggish – other parts of our activity remained resilient.  Loan growth in south and southeast Asia remained very strong.  Loan growth in the mortgage businesses in the UK and Hong Kong remained very strong, so there is a volume component to banking NII, which we supported, and as you can see from our capital, we have ample capacity to support loan growth. The third component I would call out is the non- banking NII part of our  earnings , Fees and other income, in particular W holesale Transaction Banking and Wealth . You’ve seen the momentum in these businesses.  You’ve seen the continued investment we’v e put in these businesses.  We believe these momentums are sustainable.  There’s an underlying sustainable trend supporting Wealth , in particular in Asia, and there’s an additional support through our own investments, both technology and people relationship management -related, to support growth in this area, and we believe the momentum is sustainable. Those are the broadly three components that we believe will sustain our earnings as we look into the future.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
119,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Amit, just to come to a little bit m ore elaboration on the ‘sluggish’ and ‘subdued’, I’m not surprised that the corporate loan market is a bit subdued at the moment.  I think it’s right for that to be the case because, in the higher interest -rate environment, not many corporates out there want to borrow at today’s interest rates, and actually they’ve still got a lot of cash sitting on their balance sheet.  They don’t need to borrow, which is a good position to be in, but as you see interest rates come down, I would expect there to be a pick -up in activity. Like Georges just said, we’re starting to see the very early signs of that starting to emerge.  It’s very early.  It’s too early to call it a trend, but I was pleased that the rate of decline in the corporate lending book in Hong Kong in Q1 reduced dramatically.  It had been declining through 2023, and it actually plateaued in the Q2, and that’s in Hong Kong.  Then in the rest of Asia, we saw a growth in Q1 and Q2, and in the rest of the world we saw growth in Q1 and Q2.  Q1 was the first time we saw net growth in corporate lending.  Q2 we saw net growth as well, so I think it’s encouraging early signs as interest rates come off.  I see that happening. The other thing is you’ve also got to remember there’s another side to the Hong Kong market. The deposit market and the investment market is very strong, as you saw in our W ealth businesses.  The net new invested assets going into the business in the first half of this year was about $34 billion, if I remember correctly, and as rates come off, cash moves into invested assets, and I think we’re a beneficiary of that, particularly in Hong Kong, where rate differentials are playing strongly into the investment market, whereas the rate differentials are subduing the demand for loans in the Hong Kong market.  But the rate differential is working in the opposite direction on investments.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
120,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"It’s a fair observation, and we’re not being conservative for the sake of being conservative.  I think it is too early to call a return to volume growth in the corporate loan market in substantial proport ions.  I think we all expect the rates to come off and cash to move from cash to invested assets.  I think it’s still a bit early in the cycle.  There’s a lot of uncertainty still out there, and given our guidance of mid- teens, which is somewhere between 14% and 16%, is fair at this point in time.  I think that the most important thing we’ve tried to do over the past few years is deliver each quarter and let each quarter be the base for the future, so it’s better to set reasonable and sensible guidance and then  we continue to evidence progress against that as quarter by quarter goes.  I don’t think we’re in the mould, as an institution, of being overly bullish one way or the other, particularly when there’s still quite a bit of uncertainty out there. Georges, is there anything you want to add?",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
121,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Just one parameter also to add is: remember to remove the impact of Argentina, with the expected sale taking place at the end of this year, in your 2025 assessments.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
122,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So, Raul, on the hedge size, we haven’t given the specific currency split to balance sheet split, but, yes, you should assume that the sterling component is one of the largest components in terms of the hedge size, and the UK, therefore the sterling component, is one of the most mature by way of size of hedge, but there is obviously still our previous hedges struck at lower yields maturing, and we’re able to benefit from the reinvestment of maturing hedges at higher y ields.  That was still a component in the UK bank’s NIM, which has been broadly stable , and we expect to remain broadly stable, and the structural hedge reinvestment is playing a role in that. With regards to the rest of the world, it’s a story of two tales.  There’s the reinvestment of old structural hedges at higher yields, and that is a tailwind in our banking NII.  There is also additional hedges we’re doing, where we can, and these additional hedges are suffering from – this is a partial offset as a headwind because they’re suffering from the fact that curves are inverted, but it’s still the right thing to do for the management of our banking NII sensitivity. And then obviously always keep in mind that the Hong Kong dollar exposure we have remains largel y under -hedged, and that’s due to the fact that the structure of the market does not give us enough insurance to be able to invest in the long term to support hedging.  So, the Hong Kong dollar will remain structurally under -hedged in that sense. With regards to the Hong Kong CRE question, so 40% of the book, of the $36 billion you mentioned, is unsecured.  It is typically exposure to large conglomerates with a diversified revenue stream, including revenue streams from activities not related to real estate.  90% of that book today is rated strong and good, and literally 0% is in the impaired category.  We’re very comfortable over the exposure we have in that book , and we continue, obviously, supporting our customers through the cycle in this space.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
123,qa,4.0,,Jeremy Ho U,Analyst,CICC,"Good morning, Noel.  Good morning, Georges.  My first question is on non-interest income.  If my maths is correct, my calculation shows that our adjusted non- interest income is $5.8 billion this quarter compared to $5.3 billion a year ago, and we had $200 million growth on loans.  Transaction banking is relatively stable, so it seems GBM contributed a lot this quarter.  So, I understand that this business has seasonality and is volatile, but do you expect that momentum to continue going forward or do you think the second half of last year is a relatively weak comparison? The second question is a broader one because I realis ed now you speak less about focusing on Asia these days than you used to and emphasising more on the global network.  Yes, sometimes in some ways they do intersect, but I’m wondering do you still focus on exploring some growth opportunities in Asia and Weal th business in the future and do you have a capital distribution hierarchy and preference among dividends, buy -backs and growth? Thank you.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
124,qa,,1.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Okay, Georges, do you want to take the first one? I’ll give a few comments on the second one and you ta ke the third one on capital distribution.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
125,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Very good.  Jeremy, so without giving you quarter -by−quarter specifics in the development of our fees and other income component, the growth that you’ve observed year on year in Q2 were mainly dr iven by two areas.  The first one is Wealth, which is obviously a very strategic area where we continue to invest and exhibited growth.  The other one was from markets, in particular from some of the equity business in markets.  This is coming on the basis of  two components: one, a subdued Q2 last year – so there was a base effect which benefited the outlook for Q2 this year; and then the second one is the fact that we’ve seen more activity and more vigorousness, if you want, in the Asian stock markets, in par ticular the Hong Kong stock market.  We’re encourage by this, and, if the trend continues, this will bode well for additional activity in this space. Let me jump to the third question and then I’ll hand over to Noel to conclude on the second one. Capital distribution hierarchy –  first, we’ve committed to 50% dividend payout ratio for this year, which means half our earnings will be earmarked for the foreseeable dividends.  Part of it will be distributed through our interim dividends; the rest will be meted out at the end of the year.  After that we obviously will use capital to support the organic growth of our business. Loan growth, as we said earlier, started to pick up in certain areas.  We are encouraged – or we have ample capital to support the loan growt h, the appetite we have.  We will look at bolt -on acquisitions or areas that are dead- on strategy but supportive of acceleration of the strategy. That will be part of the utilisation of excess capital, and any excess beyond that we will distribute back to s hareholders through a rolling series of share buy -backs. If you look at our CET1 ratio today, at 15%, and you look at our capital accretion – we remain capital generative in the business based on the guidance we’ve given for this year and next year – we’re confident we will have capacity to deliver on the three.  I will say the buy -backs – we’ll continue looking at it on a quarter -by-quarter basis with the ambition to have a rolling series of share buy -backs.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
126,qa,,3.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Jeremy, and on your second question, is it an Asian strategy? Is it an international strategy? I think they’re interchangeable.  I don’t think they’re mutually exclusive because, if you look at what we do, at the core of what we’ve done for 158 years , or more is we’ve connecte d entrepreneurs and businesses who want to trade with the world.  That’s what we’ve done from day one of HSBC being founded.  So, we’re essentially about helping businesses and individuals trade internationally, invest internationally. Now, why are they one and the same?  Well, a huge amount of the entrepreneurs that we have as clients are based in Asia; they’re based in the Middle East.  They’re based in the East, and they trade with the West, and the West trades with the East.  Asia and the Middle East are hi gh growth markets.  So, I don’t think it’s an either/or.  I think for us it’s very simple: we’re internationally driven, and Asia is a hugely connected international part of the world and will remain so going forward.  The nature of trade will change, as it h as done for 158 years. So, I think we use the words ‘Asia’ and ‘international’ probably interchangeably and sometimes it gets people confused.  We’re investing where there is growth and where we have differentiation.  There is growth; there is international  connectivity; there is differentiation in Asia and there is in the Middle East, and we have the same here in the UK.  Fundamentally, at the core, we’re an international bank.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
127,qa,5.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"Good morning, gents, Noel I just wanted to start off and congratulate you on your excellent tenure at HSBC.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
128,qa,,2.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Aman, thank you.  So, on your first question, look, around $43 billion banking NII for this year is a reasonable expectation, and we’re more confident about it because we’re already seven months into the year, and somewhat the forward rate outlook has become a bit less volatile than we’ve experienced over the last few months. Argentina,  we have worked with a planning assumption of $1 billion, so within our around $43 billion we’ve factored in around $1 billion contribution from Argentina.  It is a very difficult -to-predict number; it is a very volatile number; and therefore , the best estimate – you can use around $ 42 billion and add whatever other expectations you may have for Argentina, but we’re sticking with this $1 billion estimate in the uncertainty.  Just for reference, $1 billion was the banking NII contribution of Argentina in 2023, and this is how we’re building the assumpt ion for planning for this year. Now, if you look forward for H2, headwinds and tailwinds facing the banking NII –  the first one to call out is the rates outlook.  We’re using the mid- July curves, which comprise broadly between one and two rate cuts across all the major currencies in the second half.  This is the working assumption.  The second one is on the structural hedge so, as we called out earlier, you should expect a benefit from the $55 billion maturing assets in 2H at 2.8% yields which will be reinvested at higher yields, at the prevailing yields in H2, which will be higher.  You can take a five -year rate as a good benchmark for what rates will be invested at.  But this is partly offset by the additional structural hedging we are likely to do on a n inverted curve.  Again, here your best guide is what we’ve done in H1.  $25 billion of additional structural hedging is a reasonable run rate to expect for H2, but it will depend on market conditions in H2. The other components that are playing as headwin ds and tailwinds are the balance sheet growth.  Balance sheet growth –  we continue to see strong growth in South and Southeast Asia. We continue to see resilience in the mortgage books in the UK and Hong Kong, but we are now encouraged to see stability in t he Hong Kong wholesale book, which has been on a decline for a few quarters.  It’s early to call it a trend, but it is definitely green shoots when we look forward, and it will be supported with rate reductions, the balance sheet growth in this space. And t hen the last one to call out is deposit migration.  That’s particularly true in Hong Kong. Again Q1, Q2 we’ve seen migration at 0% and 1% respectively, which is 1% overall on the half. Just to put it in perspective, this is after full -year 2023 where we’ve seen 12%.  So, again, the trend here is much more encouraging.  We’re very unlikely to see anywhere near the trend of last year, but it remains a difficult one to predict. Now, as you look forward into the full year 2025, we’re not guiding on banking NII, but a few points for you to bear in mind.  The first one is please remove Argentina’s contribution – again, working assumption $1 billion.  This is following the planned sale of Argentina to take place before the end of the year.  Second, remove the one- quarter contribution from Canada, $0.3 billion, in your NII.  Then we’ve shared that there will be $105 billion of existing structural hedge assets which will mature in 2025 with an average yield of 2.8%, so those will provide some tailwind as we reinvest them at  higher yield.  So, beyond that you can apply your own interest rate assumptions on the banking NII sensitivity we provided.  $2.7 billion is the sensitivity we provided across all currencies for a 100- basis  point drop, and you can apply your balance sheet growth assumption and, again, we believe lower rates will be more supportive of a growth in balance sheet when you look into 2025, but basically all of that is factored into our guidance for return on tangi ble equity for 2025 at mid- teens.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
129,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So the banking NII sensitivity to a 10% change in pass -through rates remains around $600 million, and this is based off an assumption of around $600 billion of IBCAs.  So, we can work out the maths , if you want, offline.  That number is broadly stable. We’re s till working on an assumption of a 50% pass -through in our banking NII sensitivity. Second, if you look at the cumulative pass -throughs, we’re broadly around 50% from the start of the rate hikes in late 2022 all the way to now, broadly around 50%.  The ear lier part was much lower than 50%; the latter part was much higher than 50%.  It is difficult to predict how pass -throughs will work out on the rate- cut scenario, and this is why I think 50% remains a good estimate of what it could look like, noting that we  don’t have a recent history of that.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
130,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"Well, firstly, thank you for your comments.  And on your second point on Wealth – I’ll give a very personal comment –  you normally expect Q1 to be the seasonal high and then it to be a bit lower in Q2 and a bit lower.  So actually,  Q2 did exceed expectations in terms of seasonality.  It was a strong quarter.  At the moment I – again, we tend to be a bit on the conservative side and say, ‘Don’t base a trend on a quarter or two’, but I think your assessment that actually Q2 was a strong performance is exactly where we are.  It was stronger than probably one would have expected through normal seasonality. I think it is – if I talk to the team, they were confident of a good performance.  They’d seen good lead indicators.  We’ve taken in in excess of $250 billion of net new invested assets just over the last two and a half years, and we haven’t seen this period where ‘How will cash move from cash to invested assets as interest rates come off? ’ And therefore,  I think it is difficult to predict a trend.  I think we’ve just got to see it go quarter by quarter, but the lead indicators are good; we’ve invested in the business over the last few years to put us in this position. It was all about getting ready for lower interest rates and being in a position to take advantage of it. We invested heavily in the product line- up for our clients to make sure that, if they were going to move into invested assets, they could do so with us rather than another bank.  We invested in distribution.  We had good distribution in Hong Kong, but we didn’t have as good a distribution in other markets,  so we built out distribution in mainland China, in Singapore, in India and in the rest of the world.  So, I think it’s put us in a good position to take advantage of it, but it’s too early to call it a trend.  But your observation is a fair observation for Q2.  It was good, and it’s nice to be able to report that. On performance- related pay and costs, I’ll let Georges cover that, but we’re absolutely committed to the 5%.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
131,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So, we paid $3.8 billion through full year 2023 on performance- related pay. This is disclosed in our annual reports and accounts, but, if you look at how we accrued for that number through the year in 2023, we act ually under -accrued in the first quarter 2023 and then we topped it up at the fourth quarter to get to that total number.  When you look at full year 2024, we are accruing towards a broadly similar number for the full year than for the full year 2023 . Any decision on performance- related pay will take place in January with the R emuneration Committee after the full year’s performance has been delivered, but we are accruing broadly to the same number.  The difference is that we’re accruing more evenly.  So this is why you’ll see a higher accrual, on a year -on-year basis, in the first half and you will be seeing a lower accrual in the second half on that trajectory.  All of this is factored in our cost guidance of limiting cost growth to around 5%.  We’re absolutely  committed to our circa 5% cost -growth guidance. We’re confident we can deliver it, and we are on track to deliver it.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
132,qa,7.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"Hi, good morning.  Thanks for answering my questions.  I have two, both related to capital.  On the capital side, we saw there is $ 6.4 billion of additions to RWAs.  May I know what is that related to? I think in the notes it’s something related to modelling so I would like to know what assumption changes leads to this $ 6.4 billion and is that a one-off or should we see this as an ongoing addition to the RWA? Number two, we noticed some deterioration in asset quality on the Hong Kong CRE book. According to the disclosures, the deterioration seems quite significant as well.  Can you explain to us w hat is the impact on capital? Because we understand that there is limited impact on ECL charges but mainly reflected on capital.  So, what is the drag on capital? And then also, going forward, what is your view on Hong Kong CRE, in particular for the loans which are already in the stage 3 categories? Are you expecting that there will be a recovery of loans through disposal of collateral or are you expecting that the borrowers will eventually make up for the loans? Thank you.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
133,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So, first, Wealth income –  the way  we report it essentially is F ees and other income.  So the slide I have there for Wealth – that’s particularly the fees part, which is fees earned on asset under management or for insurance in particular related to new business CSM. So the impact, if you want, on rates is more about the transition of customers from deposits into AUMs.  So this has been happening.  We’re seeing some of our deposits move into net new invested assets and transferring, if you want, to AUMs in our Wealth proposition.  It is likely, on a trend basis, that when rates come down and the earnings you can make on deposits reduces, that customers may shift some of it into AUMs –  it will be visible now in our net new invested assets proposition, and then we will be able to service them in the fee space.  So, yes, there is a component where we do expect more Wealth activity to take place as we see deposits being less remunerative, but this is more on a broad trend basis, not a direct linkage. We are also benefiting from the structural growth of Wealth, in particular in Asia, where we believe the underlying market is growing at very -high-single digit if not double- digit percentages over the next five years, and on top of that underlying growth, which we’re benefiting from.  We are taking market share because of our additional investment in this space.  So, this is definitely a platform that can benefit from a number of trends that will support the momentum. On your second point, it’s a very good point because we talk about balance sheet growth and loan growth, but we have also a strong dependence for our banking NII to deposit growth, which constitutes the underlying for our average interest -earning assets.  So we’ve seen this quarter deposits growing 2%.  I caution you not to annuali se the 2% because some of it is seasonal; some of it is one- off. But we have a fantastic deposit franchise.  You know us. Everywhere we operate, we have a very strong balance sheet that’s very appealing, and we have a very strong proposition in deposits and transaction banking for both wholesale and retail, which means that we will continuously look to capture deposits.  We continue winning Global Payment s Solutions mandates in the w holesale space; we continue being attractive for retail customers; and we jus t shared –  Noel shared 345,000 new customers joining our Hong Kong business alone.  In the UK in 2023 we added 1 million new customers.  So therefore,  we do continue seeing a good underlying momentum to grow our deposits with this very attractive deposit franchise of ours.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
134,qa,,2.0,Noel Quinn,management,HSBC,"And I think I’d reinforce that and add another comment.  The trick for us in the past – we were very good as a retail bank; we were very good as a corporate bank; but, when customers, whether they were retail customers or corpor ate customers, wanted to invest in alternative asset classes other than cash, they tended to go to other banks because our product range and our distribution wasn’t strong enough.  We deliberately set out to invest in our products and distribution capabilit y for Wealth so that that cash –  if it did move, it moved within the bank not outside the bank, and one of the byproduct benefits is, if you’ve got a good Wealth proposition, you also attract the cash.  You keep the cash in the bank as well.  They go hand in hand. And so I think –  look, I think we’re in a very different position today in offering Wealth propositions to clients, and what we’ve done is deliberately try to diversify the revenue stream so it’s less dependent on purely corporate banking and retail banking and there is a continuum from retail and corporate banking into banking the individuals and the entrepreneurs in their personal capacity and doing their wealth management in their personal capacity, and that’s, I think, the exciting trend for the future, and I think that’s why we believe that we’re well positioned to deliver mid- teens ROTE next year: because we have that diversity and that continuum of offering.  So I just want to say that’s not a by -chance strategy.  That was a very deliberate strategy to keep both the cash in the bank and the invested assets in the bank. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today.  Before we close,  I’d like to thank you for your questions and for all the discussions we’ve had over the last five years.  I’ve always enjoyed representing my colleagues when we announce our results, and I’m really pleased that the strong first -half numbers announced today demonstrate the improved financial performance that our strategy and execution has driven.  It’s been over 15 years  since the group has generated returns at the current levels, and our new guidance underlines that we expect to be able to sustain it through this year and in 2025.  I wish Georges, the team and all of you the very best, and enjoy the rest of the day.  Thank  you.",2024,Q2,False,240801-2q-interim-results-2024-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
135,presentation,,,Georges Elhedery,Group Chief Executive,HSBC,"I’m here with Jon Bingham, our Group Financial Controller, who’s acting as Interim Group Chief Financial Officer. We delivered another good quarter, which shows that our strategy is working and we have a strong platform for growth. I am committed to building on that. Before Jon takes you through the third-quarter numbers, I’d like to make a few comments. We made several announcements last week. First, Pam Kaur will take over as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 January. Pam is an exceptional leader who joined HSBC in 2013 as Group Head of Audit and is currently our Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. With almost 40 years’ experience in the financial sector, she brings a global perspective to the strategic challenges and opportunities we face today. I look forward to partnering with her for the next stage of the bank’s growth and development. I would also like to thank Jon for his outstanding support during the interim period. Second, we announce a reorganisation to simplify and streamline the group. We are currently organised around three businesses and five regions. From 1 January, we will operate through four businesses: Hong Kong and UK, serving personal banking and commercial banking customers in our two home markets; Corporate and Institutional Banking; International Wealth and Premier Banking. We will also streamline our geographic governance structures, reducing them from five regions to two, further enhancing our ability to serve our customers’ needs throughout our global network. Our current Group Executive Committee of 18 members will be replaced by a new Group Operating Committee with 12 members. The analysis we’ve done so far demonstrates that the reorganisation will result in net cost savings with a relatively short payback period on any upfront costs. We will share these details with you at our full-year results in February as part of a wider business update. Third, turning to the external environment, I welcome the clarity provided by the UK government on its prudential rules. The PRA’s second near-final policy statement and rules on the implementation of Basel 3.1 bring an end to years of uncertainty and will help the banking sector to support growth in the UK. Similarly, I am encouraged by the recent policy measures in mainland China and Hong Kong. I am confident that the monetary stimulus announced last month and potential further fiscal and other measures will help to stabilise key sectors and strengthen mainland China’s economy. Meanwhile, Hong Kong’s easing of macroprudential constraints is proportionate and timely, and we expect these measures to have a positive impact on the Hong Kong economy. With that, Jon will take you through the Q3 numbers.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
136,presentation,,,Jon Bingham,Interim Group Chief Financial Officer,HSBC,"Thanks, Georges. In summary, we had another good quarter. Profit before tax of $8.5 billion was up $0.9 billion or 11% on the third quarter of last year on a constant-currency basis. This brings our annualised return on tangible equity for the first nine months of the year to 19.3%, or 16.7% excluding notable items. Revenue of $17 billion was up $1.1 billion on last year’s third quarter and up $0.3 billion on the second quarter this year, underlying the good momentum within the business. We’ve announced today a further $4.8 billion of distributions, consisting of a third interim dividend of 10 cents per share and a new share buyback of up to $3 billion. We intend to complete this buyback during the four-month period before our full-year results announcement in February. Last week, we also completed the share buyback announced at the half-year results in July. We’ve now repurchased 9% of our share count since the start of last year. As you can see on the next slide, strategic transactions, principally the disposal of Canada in the first quarter, were a small impact on the year-on-year revenue and profit growth. Excluding the impact of these transactions, profit before tax excluding notable items was up 13% on the third quarter of last year. Revenue of $17 billion was up $1.1 billion on the third quarter of last year, driven by a $1.6 billion increase in fee and other income. This included a $0.7 billion increase in Wholesale Transaction Banking and Wealth. The remaining $1 billion increase primarily reflected strong performance in Equities and Global Debt Markets within Global Banking and Markets, and adverse items in the third quarter of last year that did not repeat, including $0.3 billion of treasury disposal losses and other notable items. Banking NII of $10.6 billion was down $0.3 billion on the second quarter on a reported FX basis, primarily due to a loss arising from the early redemption of legacy securities. Excluding this, the banking NII run rate was stable on the previous quarter. Our 2024 banking NII guidance is unchanged at around $43 billion. Our guidance includes the impact of the $0.3 billion early redemption loss taken this quarter. It also assumes a $1 billion contribution from Argentina this year, which is what we reported in 2023. Argentina has contributed $1.2 billion to banking NII in the year to date, but the volatility created by hyperinflation accounting makes that number very difficult to forecast from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, I would encourage you to think about our guidance as being around $42 billion excluding Argentina. Turning to fee and other income, Wholesale Transaction Banking was up 7% on last year’s third quarter. The key driver was Global Foreign Exchange, which grew 12%, benefiting from increased client activity. Higher volumes also contributed to growth in both Global Trade Solutions and Global Payments Solutions. Wealth was up 32% on the third quarter last year. It was our third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in Wealth, as our continued investments in this business and the importance of Hong Kong as a global wealth hub have enabled us to capitalise on a favourable operating environment. There is double-digit growth in all Wealth products, but life insurance was the biggest driver. About half of the growth in life insurance was from the non-repetition of a charge we took in Q3 last year. Excluding that, life insurance still grew well into double digits, mainly because a higher CSM balance drove an increase in CSM release. The CSM balance is a store of value. All else remaining equal, growth in the balance means growth in future earnings, and our CSM balance has continued to grow. In the first three quarters of this year, we have generated more than $2 billion of new business CSM. This has driven our CSM balance to $13.2 billion, a 22% increase since last year’s third quarter, creating a foundation for future revenue growth. Hong Kong continued to benefit from inflows of international customers. There were 243,000 new-to-bank customers in the third quarter versus an average of just over 170,000 per quarter in the first half. Net new invested assets were $26 billion, $11 billion of which were in Asia. On credit, you’ll recall that our second quarter had a low ECL charge due to recoveries and other items. The third quarter ECL charge was $1 billion or 40 basis points of average loans. The wholesale ECL charge was $0.6 billion, driven by $0.4 billion in Hong Kong, of which $0.1 billion related to Hong Kong commercial real estate, whilst the personal charge was $0.4 billion. This brings our annualised ECL charge to 28 basis points of average loans for the year to date, which is broadly in line with our 30 to 40 basis point guidance for the full year. Next, on costs, costs were up 6% in the first nine months of the year on a target basis, which was 1% lower than for the first half. As we explained in the previous quarter, the phasing of performance-related pay and the additional levies from the end of last year will give us a tailwind heading into the fourth quarter. We’re on track to meet our target of around 5% cost growth for 2024 on a target basis and remain committed to cost discipline. On lending and deposits, loan balances were stable in the third quarter. Deposits were up 1%, driven by a $16 billion increase in Hong Kong WPB. This reflected short-term flows between invested assets and deposits, and I would caution you against annualising that number. Term deposits were 39% of total Hong Kong deposits, unchanged since the second quarter. Next, our CET1 ratio is 15.2%, up 20 basis points on the second quarter, as strong organic capital generation was partly offset by distributions. CET1 grew $3.1 billion during the quarter on a constant-currency basis. This growth included $2.9 billion of other movements, mainly gains in the market value of securities classified as held to collect and sell, which are fair-valued through other comprehensive income. RWAs grew by $14 billion on a constant-currency basis, mainly due to broader balance sheet growth. Finally, I’d like to point out a number of upcoming events which will help you with your modelling. First, we expect the buyback we announced today to have an impact of around 0.4 percentage points on our CET1 ratio in the fourth quarter. It remains our intention to return excess capital to shareholders through a rolling series of share buybacks. Secondly, we expect to complete the sale of HSBC Argentina in the fourth quarter. As a reminder, around $5.1 billion of historical foreign exchange translation and other reserve losses will be recycled to the income statement on completion. This has already been recognised in capital and there will be no incremental impact on CET1, TNAV or distributions. These losses will also be excluded from our dividend calculation. We expect the completion of the sale to reduce RWAs by around $8 billion, equivalent to around 0.1 percentage points of CET1. Third, we intend to begin to actively market our $8 billion legacy French home loan portfolio during the fourth quarter. We expect to reclassify this portfolio as held to collect and sell in the first quarter next year, leading to a recognition of an estimated $1 billion pre-tax loss, equivalent to around 0.1 percentage points of CET1. Finally, the PRA recently published near-final rules on Basel 3.1. These are incrementally better than we previously expected. We continue to expect them to have an immaterial impact on our CET1 ratio upon implementation. To conclude, our guidance remains unchanged, namely a mid-teens return on tangible equity, excluding notable items for 2024 and 2025; banking NII of around $43 billion in 2024; ECLs for a full year within our normal medium-term planning range of 30-40 basis points; cost growth of around 5% for 2024 on a target basis; and mid-single digit loan growth over the medium term. With that, Louise, can we hand over to",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
137,qa,,1.0,Andrew Coombs,management,HSBC,"Good morning, and good afternoon for those in Hong Kong. Two questions, please. One, firstly, just on the reorg and strategy – a very simple question. Given the new structure, where does that leave Mexico? Any thoughts on Mexico would be appreciated. Secondly, on the financials themselves, on that non-NII strength, where fee and other income is up 32% year on year – and you’ve highlighted you’ve now had three consecutive quarters of double-digit growth. Previously, if I go back to your investor day in 2023, you talked about high single-digit growth for Asian Wealth specifically. You’re clearly running well ahead of that and consistently running well ahead of that, so to what extent do you think we can extrapolate that double-digit growth into future quarters in the next year? Thank you.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
138,qa,,3.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"Andrew, as you know, we’ve been investing in our Wealth capabilities for some time. Wealth was up 32% year on year in the third quarter and 20% year on year for the nine months. That growth was particularly driven in Asia, where we see a favourable operating environment, but we are seeing broad-based growth across the main segments. That’s supported by strong customer growth and growth in net new invested assets. So we have guided previously to high single-digit growth. I think it’s fair that we may well outperform that in the short term.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
139,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"So, on banking NII – thanks for the question, Aman. If I might be forgiven for giving you a longer answer to this, if we start on 2024, we’ve reiterated our guidance on 2024 of banking NII of around $43 billion, but encourage you to think about that as $42 billion ex- Argentina. In total, we’ve printed $31.6 billion for the nine months to date, and we think the Q3 run rate of $10.6 billion is a pretty clean run rate for you to think about modelling 2025. We don’t provide guidance at this stage on 2025 banking NII guidance, but if you take that clean run rate of the $10.6 billion, which I agree is about $42 billion – we’ll have disposed of Argentina – so therefore we then think of the building blocks for you to model this along four factors. Firstly, rates – the reduction in rates implied in the markets will be clearly a headwind. The cuts during the third quarter – given the timing of them, they had a relatively modest impact on the third quarter’s results, but we’d encourage you to use our banking NII sensitivity against market implied rates to generate that component. We then have the structural hedge that will provide a tailwind. We’ve got the reinvestment of maturing positions that will enable us to reinvest them at higher rates. We’ve signalled that, for 2025, we’ve got $115 billion maturing at an average yield of about 2.9%, so think about those maturing and being replaced at something along the lines of five-year bond rates. We’ve then got volume growth. Whilst volume growth has been relatively subdued in 2024, we do hope that, with interest rates coming off and economic activity picking up, we will see more loan growth. We continue to guide to mid-single digits in the medium-to-long term. The timing of getting there will be unpredictable. And then, lastly, we keep an eye on time deposit migration. That has been relatively stable, particularly in Hong Kong, at 39% over the last couple of quarters, but the impact on that as rates come off will be variable. It depends on competitive pressures and customer behaviour. So all of those factors are how we have thought about it and modelled it and included that within our mid-teens RoTE guidance for 2025. Thanks, Aman.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
140,qa,,3.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,So the mid-teens RoTE guidance is excluding notable items. We will come back to you in February with full details of the benefits and costs of the reorganisation.,2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
141,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"Just to amplify your comments on Wealth, we’re seeing good growth in Wealth. We see the net new investor assets; we’re very pleased with that. In Asia, they’ve grown by $11 billion in the quarter and $49 billion over the nine months. You will see some movements as we grow our Wealth franchise. We also had $16 billion of deposits, which Georges talked about. We’ll see also deposits increase. They will ultimately feed into the Wealth share of wallet that we’re growing, so continue to be encouraged.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
142,qa,3.0,,Kunpeng Ma,Analyst,China Securities,"Good morning, Georges. Good morning, Jon. Thank you for taking my question. I’ve got one question on transaction banking because we’ve seen a slight recovery in transaction banking income in the third quarter, but I think that’s maybe driven by FX volatility, but maybe we can see more rate cuts going forward and maybe we’re going to see continued FX volatility going forward, so could you please give me a little bit more colour on the future outlook of transaction banking income? If you could comment on both NII and non-NII, that would be quite appreciated. Thank you.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
143,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"We’ve been pleased by the growth in Wholesale Transaction Banking in the quarter, up 7%. As you say, an element of that is client-driven activity around FX and rates volatility, but within there, we continue to invest in Global Trade Solutions and Global Payments Solutions. On Global Trade Solutions, we continue to grow our market share in both Hong Kong and the UK, and so, as that market comes back, there is the opportunity for that to be a platform for our growth. Similarly, you’ll see us continue to invest in Global Payments Solutions, and we see a very optimistic path for the payment markets going forward.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
144,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Amit. I’ll give you a bit more colour on the ECL charge. There’s a $1 billion charge in Q3, which is 40 basis points of average loans. That’s actually a more normal charge, because Q2 benefitted from releases and recoveries. If you then dissect the Q3 charge, there’s three things within there. Firstly, the UK is a $200 million charge. Again, that benefitted from releases in Q2. It’s a more normal charge; there’s nothing more going on in there. In Hong Kong in total, we incurred a $500 million charge. As you say, that was mainly a $400 million charge in wholesale, which included $100 million of mainland China CRE and $100 million of Hong Kong CRE. The rest of it was across a number of sectors – again, nothing of particular note. Relative to Q3 last year, we did have an increase in our Mexico retail charge, so that went up to a $200 million charge. That’s actually been relatively normal through the quarters of 2024, but relative to Q3 2023 is a little higher. We’re confident as we see this that we will be in our 30 to 40 basis points planning range over the medium term and certainly there for 2024.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
145,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"If I pick up your second point on Hong Kong CRE it’s actually a very similar picture to that we described at Q2. A few customers continue to face cashflow pressures. Some of that is rates resultant, and as rates come off, we would hope that begins to abate some of those cashflow pressures. If you look at the Asia wholesale stage threes, they were up $1.1 billion in the quarter. Some of that relates to Hong Kong CRE. That also drove a modest amount of additional RWAs. For the ECLs on that, we’ve referred to the fact that there was a $100 million charge on ECLs. That was both across stage one and stage two. The stage three ratio is slightly up quarter on quarter, but we continue to see good collateral across that portfolio, so we don’t see this as a material ECL driver going forward. Our focus is really on supporting our customers through this period, and as there’s pressures we should see start to reduce as rates recede.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
146,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"As we said, Gurpreet, we are confident about the outlook of the Hong Kong economy at large and the Hong Kong commercial real estate sector in particular, partly because of the rates receding, as Jon was just mentioning, but also partly due to the policy measures and the countercyclical measures that have been taken this month to support the sector. We see these as having positive developments for the outlook of the market. Thank you very much, Gurpreet.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
147,qa,6.0,,Jeremy Hou,Analyst,CICC,"Good morning, Georges. Good morning, Jon. My first question is on the structural hedge. Georges, you mentioned that $25 billion is a good run rate for you to build up the structural hedge in the second half, but in Q3 that increased by $27 billion, and maybe most of that comes from FX impact. Do you still stick to a $25 billion run rate, or would you like to accelerate it? The second question is I’d like to hear your thoughts on what areas HSBC can further make investments, because it seems like over the years our strategy always emphasised that the bank had to make excellent good cost discipline, and we did it. We made some investments, but mostly small ones. If you look forward, do you see any opportunities that may help to further drive growth and take market share, or do you think it’s better to stay cautious as we are still facing some top-line pressures? Thank you.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
148,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"Jeremy, if I pick up your question on structural hedge, as you rightly say we have increased our structural hedge during the period from $504 billion at 30 June to $531 billion at 30 September, but that was mostly FX driven. The duration of that remains 2.8 years. We would continue to expect to increase our structural hedge, but that will depend on market conditions that we have. I would say that the big increases of our structural hedge are probably behind us, so further increases from here will only have a modest impact on our banking NII sensitivity.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
149,qa,7.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"Thanks, Georges, and thanks, Jon. My questions will be two. The first one I would like to ask is about NII. The confusing thing here is that the headline NII actually slightly misses expectation, but if we work out the banking NII there’s a moderate beat, and also we try to calculate what is the banking net interest margin. It seems it’s by and large stable. Just starting in Q3 HIBOR actually went down on average 50 basis points. May I ask what is driving that stable net interest margin? Will it be from the liabilities management side? Just now Jon gave us some colour in terms of deposit migration, but is it possible to give me some numbers to work around? What is the CASA ratio in Hong Kong and how has the trend changed? This will be my first question. My second question is that, when I look at the RWA migration, on the numerator I saw that in the migration side there is a $2 billion addition to CET1 capital due to movement in reserves. Can we get a bit of colour on that one? Will we be seeing a similar type of movement in the coming quarters? Actually, I have one additional question on the loss that we were talking about, the legacy securities. Can you give us a bit of colour on this one. I understand that management put this into notable items, so supposedly to be one off, but is it really one off in nature? Will we have other securities and perpetual bonds that we would like to redeem in the future? For example, do we have another 10% type of perpetual bond currency in our book that we may be looking to redeem when opportunities arise? Thank you.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
150,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Katherine. Three questions there. If I start on your net interest margin, we give some detail on the net interest margin on page 17 of the slide deck, but effectively the net interest margin has moved from 162 bps to 146 bps. There’s three things driving that. One, the loss on the early redemption of legacy securities, as you’ve mentioned. Two, some Argentina volatility, and then the remaining is on – we’ve allocated more funding to the trading book, and as you know that will be a drag on net interest income but also an equal and opposite benefit on non-net-interest income. Our preferred measure and the way that we think about it is through the banking NII lens. There you’ll see that our clean run rate ex Argentina and ex the notables has been relatively stable period on period, reflecting the fact that the Q3 rate cuts, given their timing, had a modest impact on Q3. You’d also asked about deposit migration. We’ve again got some detail in that on slide 17, but that has remained relatively stable at 39% for the Hong Kong deposits. If I move on to your CET1 question and then particularly the change in other adjustments for CET1 capital, that is around the fair value movements of our securities that are classified as fair value through OCI. We’ve generated a gain on those, which has given us also a capital benefit on that. I think on legacy securities Georges has covered most of the questions on that, but we’re not signalling anything at this stage around further legacy securities redemptions. Thank you, Katherine.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
151,qa,8.0,,Ed Firth,Analyst,KBW,"Morning, everybody. Thanks for taking the questions. I just have two questions. One was just a clarification. Just to be clear, the $1.1 billion increase in stage three loans in Hong Kong, is that all CRE, just to be clear on that? That was the first question. The second one is we’ve obviously got a US election coming up in the next couple of weeks, and I just wondered if you could give us some thoughts from your perspective in terms of the possible risks and opportunities that you see that could come out of that with the two realistic options. Just related to that, there was a lot of press comment that your reorganisation was driven by splitting up the Asian and the UK or developed markets businesses. Is that actually right, or is that just idle speculation from journalists?",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
152,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Let me take your second and third questions and Jon can address the stage three question. Look, this is a matter for the US electorate to choose their president. I’m not going to speculate or comment. We will see the outcomes on 5 November, but what is important for us is that we serve our customers. We have been serving our customers through an evolving set of rules and regulations on the global scale. We serve them for their needs, especially for their cross-border needs, where we’re unique at being able to do so. We obviously comply with all rules and regulations. We will make sure that our customers are able to comply with all rules and regulations, insofar that their financial needs are concerned. Any new rules and regulations which may come with any new administration are things that we will obviously comply with and support our customers to comply with. What I can say, though, is it remains a distinctive skill that we have in supporting our customers’ cross-border needs. This is one of our unique areas of competitive edge and this remains unchanged. Our customer needs remain broad-based and global, and we will continue supporting them on that mission. With regards to the reorganisation, this is categorically not either an intent or a preparation – as has been speculated by some – of splitting the Asia business, etc. Absolutely not. This is a simplification of the bank where we today govern ourselves through five regions, and we’re bringing this regional setup down to two. That is part of the simplification. It is also meant to help us speed up the build-out of what is a very promising corridor between the Middle East and Asia. We’re seeing material growth in this corridor over the last few years. Our customers across both the Middle East and Asia are looking for opportunities of trade and investments between them, and we’ve been – we have a unique position to be able to help our customers across this corridor. That simplification should also help speed up the build of that corridor. I remind you in our western geographies now we’re essentially a wholesale bank. We have sold our retail banking activities in France. We’ve sold the mass retail activities in the US. We’ve sold the bank in Canada. We’ve sold the bank in Greece. We are in the process of selling the bank in Argentina, and with that we’ll be left with what is essentially a Corporate and Institutional Banking business that also brings some simplification aspects to the way we govern ourselves in this region. These are the reasons why we did the simplification of reorganisation we announced last week.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
153,qa,,2.0,Jon Bingham,management,HSBC,"On your CRE question, Ed, of the $1.1 billion increase in Asia wholesale stage threes, most of that was Hong Kong CRE. The picture is very similar to how we described it at Q2. We could see more migrations into stage three until interest rates begin to ease the cash flow pressures in those businesses, but given the collateral levels that we have against that portfolio we don’t see that as a major driver of ECL risk going forward. We’re focused on supporting our customers through this transition period. Thanks, Ed.",2024,Q3,False,241029-3q-2024-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
154,presentation,,,Georges Elhedery,Group Chief Executive,HSBC,"Welcome, all, to today’s call. I’m joined by Pam, our new Group CFO. We’re delighted to be here in Hong Kong, the city where HSBC was founded 160 years ago. Our history and heritage stand us in good stead in so many ways. Adapting to new economic realities and technologies is what we have always done. It brings out the best in our people and culture, especially when acting as a trusted advisor to our customers as they navigate the world’s economic uncertainties and look towards new opportunities. Before Pam takes you through the fourth-quarter numbers, I will cover four items. First, I will go through our full-year 2024 results. Second, I will set out the changes implemented over the past few months to create a simple, more agile, focused bank addressing the ways we operate in a fundamental way. Third, I will describe in some detail the solid foundations we are building on. For example, I will share with you what we plan to do next in order to deliver sustainable strategic growth and meet our return targets. Starting with the full-year numbers, 2024 performance was strong. We delivered record profit before tax of $32.3 billion, or $34.1 billion excluding notable items. We generated a 14.6% return on tangible equity, or 16% excluding notable items, in line with our mid-teens target. We announced a total of $26.9 billion of distributions to our shareholders in respect of 2024, including 87 cents per share of dividends and $11 billion of share buybacks. When I took the role in September, my priority was to inject energy and intent in the way we deliver our strategy, while maintaining continued focused cost discipline. At our third-quarter results, I committed to provide you with more detail on the expected benefits from our organisational simplification. We have simplified HSBC in two important ways. We have elevated and empowered our two home markets of Hong Kong and the UK and our Wealth proposition, and we have combined our two wholesale businesses. In doing so, we have eliminated large parts of our complex matrix governance structure. This significantly improved operating model is now led by a tighter Group Operating Committee. It has clarity of accountability, fewer management lines and layers, reducing the need for the number of committees we previously ran across the bank. This has increased our agility. As an illustration, previously, every dollar of revenue we generated had at least two accountable executives at the Group Executive Committee. Today, around 60% of our revenue has a single accountable executive at the Group Operating Committee. This will empower our people to make faster decisions, collaborate better and innovate for the benefit of our customers. In short, we’ve simplified our structure and we’ve aligned it to our strategy. This will enable us to deliver around $1.5 billion of annualised savings by the end of full-year 2025, primarily through de-duplication of roles. This represents circa 8% reduction of our global staffing costs. This will cost around $1.8 billion in severance and other up-front costs. Those $1.5 billion savings will have no meaningful impact on revenue and they will be taken straight to the bottom line. Separately, we will redeploy c.$1.5 billion of costs from non-strategic or low-returning activities as incremental investments to our priority growth areas, where we have clear competitive advantages and generate accretive returns. We have started to do this by announcing that we will begin to wind down our M&A and ECM activities in the UK, Europe and the US. I will cover our priority growth areas shortly. These actions give us the confidence to target a mid-teens return on tangible equity in 2025, 2026 and 2027. Each of our four businesses are firmly rooted in our core strengths. In our two home markets of Hong Kong and the UK, we have two strong businesses. In both businesses, we serve Personal Banking customers as well as Commercial Banking and Small and Medium Enterprises. We are a leading bank and are growing market share in key products. Importantly, in both, we are profitable and delivering very good returns. As for the large corporations with global banking needs in both home markets, alongside individuals with multi-country personal financial needs, they will be served by our two international businesses, as I am about to set out. Corporate and Institutional Banking – CIB – is a global wholesale bank with significant competitive advantages. It has a powerful deposit franchise with strong financing capabilities, and it also has a market-leading transaction bank, leveraging our global network. As the world’s number one trade bank for the last seven consecutive years, we are exceptionally well placed to help our customers and capture global and intra-regional trade flows as supply chains reconfigure, new trade routes emerge, economies grow, and our customer expectations evolve. CIB is also well positioned to help entrepreneurs secure the capital they need to build the businesses of the future and help our customers decarbonise. International Wealth and Premier Banking – IWPB – is ideally placed to capture the increasing number of affluent and high-net-worth customers, especially those with international banking needs who seek new investment opportunities to help them protect and grow their wealth. Our recognised brand, financial strength and complementary footprints across Asia and the Middle East reinforce our position in the world’s fastest growing wealth markets. Let me now highlight our distinctive strengths, starting with our high-quality revenue streams. Our franchise generates resilient recurring revenue from three key sources. As you can see, in 2024, two-thirds of revenue was from Banking NII. This is the result of the strong deposit and lending positions in each of our four core businesses. As you know, we have built up the structural hedge to protect this revenue stream from falling interest rates. Pam will speak more about this. The remaining third was from fee and other income. Around a half of this was from our market-leading Wholesale Transaction Banking business, which is built on our global network, covering 85% of global trade and capital flows, including high-growth markets such as India, ASEAN, mainland China, the Middle East and Mexico. Around a third was from Wealth, which I will talk about shortly. Taken together, this means that more than 90% of our revenue comes from three high-quality streams. Moving to our strong deposit franchise, our customers trust the strength of our balance sheet and have chosen us to look after their deposits. This gives us a highly liquid and profitable balance sheet, which provides greater flexibility through the cycle. Within our $1.7 trillion deposit base, we have large deposit surpluses in each of our four businesses, giving us the funding capacity to support our clients. Turning now to our high-quality loan portfolio, we have always maintained a conservative approach to risk management, as evidenced by the quality of our loan portfolio. In the period since 2018, we have experienced a global pandemic, an energy crisis and the real-estate cycle in the US, in Hong Kong and in mainland China. Our average annual ECL charge over that period was 32 basis points of average gross loans, which is well within our medium-term planning range of 30-40 basis points. On our disciplined capital management, over the last two years, our capital generation has enabled us to return $47.7 billion to our shareholders. This comprises of $27.7 billion of dividends and $20 billion of share buybacks, including those announced today. Through the rolling series of share buybacks we have undertaken since the start of 2023, we have now repurchased 11% of our year-end 2022 issued share count. We are targeting a mid-teens return on tangible equity in each of the next three years. The external environment presents us with opportunities but also challenges. The interest rate outlook is benign but remains volatile. We can adapt to changing patterns of trade and economic growth, but there is a risk of disruption, and we have a major opportunity in wealth in Asia and the Middle East, but it is a highly competitive space. Despite these challenges, we have levers we can pull on to support us to deliver on our target. We’re confident we can take decisive action to do so. These levers are, first, driving operating leverage as an ongoing process through cost efficiency and optimisation, as well as continuous improvements in productivity, second, dynamic balance sheet management and capital allocation, which I’ll cover shortly, and third, investing for strategic long-term growth. Let me turn to this next. We're creating the capacity to invest for growth in the business and to drive efficiencies. We’re focusing our growing investment pot, as shown on this and the next slide. First, in our home markets, we intend to expand the number of wealth centres and enhance our wealth capabilities in Hong Kong, which is set to become the world’s leading cross-border wealth centre. We attracted around 800,000 new-to-bank personal banking customers in Hong Kong last year, and we are well positioned to capture growth opportunities as international customers choose Hong Kong as their cross-border wealth hub. In the UK, we plan to also grow the Wealth business, and we plan to improve our SME covering and proposition. This is an extremely attractive and profitable segment, where we will intensify our focus. Second, in CIB, we intend to leverage our network and further enhance our transaction banking capabilities, including in high-growth markets such as mainland China, ASEAN, India, the Middle East and Mexico. We are also looking to scale up our broad loan origination capabilities by underwriting more and distributing more to our institutional and wealth clients. This ability to leverage our loan origination for the purpose of distribution will give us larger opportunities to generate fee income, improve capital efficiencies and, in turn, improve CIB returns. Third, in IWPB, we intend to accelerate the wealth build-up in our home markets, and particularly also in key growth markets such as Singapore, the UAE, India and mainland China. In each of these, we aim to accelerate the hiring of relationship managers, establish new wealth centres, and expand our product offering. While we are benefiting from an underlying growth in this segment, particularly in Asia and the Middle East, we also aim to grow our market share by, first, better driving wealth penetration with our own wholesale or Premier customers, second, better capturing cross-border flows of our own customers in their outbound location, and third, increasing the proportion of mandates within our invested assets. Finally, underpinning all of this and across the Group, we aim to seize the opportunity of AI and generative AI. Our flagship initiatives will focus on improving customer service through both our mobile apps and our contact centres. We also intend to increase tech productivity with tools such as coding assistants, and improve process efficiency in areas such as onboarding, KYC, credit applications and many others. Mid-teens returns will give us a range of attractive options for capital deployment and will drive EPS and DPS growth over time. As the illustration on the right-hand slide of the slide demonstrates, a mid-teens return on tangible equity will enable us to deliver the 50% dividend payout ratio in 2025, and still have sufficient capital to grow the balance sheet, buy back shares, or both. Supporting our customers will always be our first priority, and we expect our loan book to grow in the mid-single digits over the medium- to long-term. However, fluctuations in customer demand for credit mean our loan book may grow at an uneven pace. Share buybacks remain our preferred method of returning excess capital to our shareholders, because they drive growth in EPS and DPS. For instance, in 2024, while our earnings grew by c.2%, our earnings per share grew by c.9%, reflecting the benefit from the c.6% reduction of share count through share buybacks in this year. So in summary, we’ve simplified the Group and, along with our continued focus on costs, are committed to delivering c.$1.5 billion savings to the bottom line. We’re focused on delivering for our customers by capturing growth opportunities where we have a clear competitive advantage and accretive returns. And we’re eliminating, over the medium term, an additional c.$1.5 billion of costs from non-strategic or low-returning activities, and redeploying them into these priority growth areas. We are targeting a mid-teens return on tangible equity in each of 2025, 2026 and 2027. With that, let me hand over to Pam.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
155,presentation,,,Pam Kaur,Group Chief Financial Officer,HSBC,"Thanks, Georges. Thank you, everyone, for joining. I would like to begin by sharing my approach as Group CFO. In short, I’m fully focused on discipline, performance and delivery. Discipline means prioritising with precision, maintaining strong cost control, and ensuring investment rigour for growth. Performance means gearing our financial strategy towards achieving our mid-teens returns target. Delivery means ensuring we remain agile and resilient, enhance operating leverage, and are always well positioned to support our customers. Let me now turn to the Q4 numbers. Starting with the highlights, profit before tax was $2.3 billion, or $7.3 billion excluding notable items. This strong performance enabled us to announce a further $8.4 billion of distributions in respect of the fourth quarter. This consists of a fourth interim dividend of 36 cents per share, and a share buyback of up to $2 billion, which we intend to complete before our first-quarter results in April. On this slide, you can see the impact of notable items on year-on-year revenue and profit growth. This was principally the $5.2 billion related to historical foreign exchange translation losses from the Argentina disposal. Excluding these, profit before tax was up 10% on the fourth quarter of last year. Excluding notable items, revenue of $16.5 billion was up $1.2 billion on the fourth quarter of last year, driven by Banking NII and a strong performance in Wealth. On Banking NII, excluding the impact of Argentina and other notable items, the Banking NII run rate remained broadly stable. Deposit growth and benefits from the structural hedge were partially offset by lower interest rates. Looking ahead, we expect Banking NII of around $42 billion in 2025. To be clear, this is a change to the way we have given you guidance before. ‘Around $42 billion’ is not an underpin. It is our expectation at the present time, based on the current market rates outlook and our own projections. We also want to give you some additional detail on the structural hedge. As you know, we have been building up the structural hedge to help manage our interest rate sensitivity. During 2024, we increased the notional balance by around $50 billion. We also extended the duration from 2.8 years to 3.1 years. This contributed to a further reduction in the interest rate sensitivity of our Banking NII last year. We have reduced our sensitivity to a 100-basis-point rate shock from around $7 billion in June 2022 to around $2.9 billion at the end of 2024. We’re also providing additional disclosures on the expected reinvestment profile of the structural hedge. We expect to reinvest around $95 billion of assets in each of 2025 and 2026, from a current average yield of around 2.8%. We also expect to reinvest around $90 billion of assets in 2027, from a current average yield of around 3.4%. Moving to fee and other income, Wholesale Transaction Banking was stable on last year’s fourth quarter. Excluding the impact of strategic transactions, primarily the sale of Canada, it was up by 3%, as we continue to leverage our global network and capitalise on our position as the world’s number one trade bank. The standout performance was again in Wealth, which was up 27% on the same quarter last year. This was our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-on-year growth. I’m pleased we added 234,000 new-to-bank Personal Banking customers in Hong Kong in the quarter. This brings the total number added in 2024 to 799,000, as Hong Kong continues to grow in importance as a cross-border wealth hub. I’m also pleased with the strong momentum in the business in January, which is in line with previous years. All of this gives us confidence that we can continue to grow this business further. Our medium-term target is to continue to grow fee and other income by double-digit CAGR. There are three trends that underpin this ambition. First, the multi-year growth in new-to-bank customers in Hong Kong underlines that the city is on track to becoming the number one cross-border wealth hub before the end of this decade. Our past experience suggests that new customers grow their total balances and wealth products over time, so this is expected to provide a tailwind. Second, the strength of our business in key international wealth hubs, particularly Hong Kong, has enabled us to grow invested assets in Asia at 17% CAGR. This was also the key driver of our 13% CAGR growth in invested assets at the Group level. There have also been strong multi-year inflows of net new invested assets, with Asia accounting for the majority. Finally, our CSM balance is a third bigger than it was two years ago, despite the reclassification of our French life insurance business in the fourth quarter. This reflects continued year-on-year growth in new business CSM from higher volumes, particularly in Hong Kong. As you know, the CSM balance is a store of future earnings, which released into the P&L at between 9% and 10% in the last two years. All things being equal, this means that future earnings growth has been built in. Also, last year the value of new business CSM was substantially greater than the CSM released to the P&L. On credit, our fourth quarter ECL charge was $1.4 billion. $1 billion of this was in wholesale, including around $300 million from two clients, one in the UK and one in mainland China commercial real estate sector. Overall, our portfolios in our home markets remained strong. This brought our 2024 charge to 36 basis points of average loans, which is within our medium-term planning range of 30 to 40 basis points. We expect our 2025 charge to be within our medium-term planning range. On costs, we are committed to deliver $1.5 billion of simplification savings from our reorganisation to the bottom line, of which around $0.3 billion will be recognised in our 2025 P&L. We expect to incur around $1.8 billion of severance and other up-front costs by the end of 2026. The bulk of these costs will be incurred this year. Separately, we are also aiming to reallocate a further around $1.5 billion of costs from non-strategic activities to priority growth areas. You will have seen that we have announced that we will begin to wind down our ECM and M&A activities in the UK, Europe and the US while refocusing on Asia. Those businesses were not materially profitable and exiting them will make around $300 million of costs available for reinvestment in our priority growth areas. The slide also shows some businesses that we have recently agreed to dispose of, German Private Banking and French life insurance, to which I’ll add the sale of our retail banking operations in Bahrain, which was announced today. These were not aligned with our four businesses where we will focus our investment dollars and our time. Through these actions, we are creating investment space in our priority areas within our strict cost discipline. As Georges said, these include Wealth in Asia and the Middle East, UK SME coverage and wholesale transaction banking. Entry to the extra investment list is a high hurdle requiring strategic alignment and financial returns. As we continue to work through exits of low return and non-strategic activities, we are confident the investment dollars they provide will deliver a higher return to the bank. The actions taken last year mean that 2024 costs were in line with our guidance of around 5% growth on a target basis. We remain fully committed to cost discipline. We expect 2025 costs to grow by around 3% compared with 2024 on a target basis, which excludes notable items and the direct costs of the Canada and Argentina disposals. Our guidance of around 3% growth includes up to 4% underlying growth from inflation and investment, partly offset by around $0.3 billion of efficiency cost savings that we expect to realise this year. On loans and deposits, loan balances were stable. Deposits were up 3% in the fourth quarter. This included an increase in Hong Kong supported by customer growth as well as seasonality. As we have said before, I would caution you against annualising that number. Our CET1 ratio was 14.9%, above our target range of 14% to 14.5%. We expect the buyback of up to $2 billion announced today to have an impact of around 0.2 percentage points in the first quarter. We have reclassified our $7 billion legacy French home loan portfolio as hold-to- collect-and-sell in the first quarter. This will lead to recognition of an estimated $1 billion pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income, equivalent to around 0.1 percentage points of CET1. In summary, we have set out our current expectations in respect of 2025 and the medium term, but our key target is mid-teens return on tangible equity in each of the next three years. We will run the bank to deliver this. Neil, can we go to",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
156,qa,,1.0,Neil Sankoff,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Pam. We’ll start with questions from the room. Please just wait for the microphone and remember to say your name and the name of your firm. Thank you.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
157,qa,3.0,,Benjamin Toms,Analyst,RBC,"Good morning, both. Thank you for taking my questions. The first one is on capital, please. In relation to your CET1 ratio guidance of 14% to 14.5%, before today, this used to have a caveat: you’d aim to manage this down further over time. I just note that that hasn’t been mentioned in today’s update. What are your latest thoughts on your medium- term ambitions for the CET1 ratio and has there been any change in sentiment? And then, secondly, on costs in relation to your $1.5 billion of savings, you note that they will be taken to the bottom line, although presumably there’ll be offsets from drivers such as inflation. Maybe you could just clarify directionally what you expect the shape of costs will do coming out of 2025 and going into 2026 and 2027? Thank you.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
158,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Georges. And Ben, coming to your first question, we are very comfortable operating between the 14% to 14.5% range. The comment on looking at it again was removed some time ago, so no change for now in that respect. I want to just unbundle a little bit more on the cost point. So on the cost point, if you look at the guidance that we have, and this is the $1.5 billion of cost savings that are going straight to the bottom line. So the way we’ve looked at it is that it’s about 4%, if you look at inflation, as well as BAU investment. The benefit of that $1.5 billion this year that we are taking straight to the bottom line is $300 million. So if you compare to on a target basis, and you’re starting excluding disposals and hyperinflation, you start from 2024, it’s going to be a 3% year-on-year growth. So that’s what we are looking at. Now, severance and other one-off costs, they will be treated as notable items. Now, the timing of the $1.5 billion, yes, is $300 million this year. There’ll be more to come, clearly, in 2026. We see the full benefit of the $1.5 billion savings coming through for the full-year 2027, and the severance costs, etc, will be more upfront.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
159,qa,7.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"I just want to clarify on the cost questions. I would like to ask about the second $1.5 billion. Have we factored that in in the mid-teens RoTE guidance? Because when we are exiting some business, we need some regulatory approval and it’s hard to gauge the timeline. What assumptions do we have regarding these parts in our mid-teens RoTE guidance? The underlying question is will we see some upside, because if we do it faster or slower? The second one, I still want to ask about CRE question. I think it’s an old question, but I think we still have a lot of people, a lot of investors care about it. Both in Hong Kong and China in last quarter we heard some events which led to some concerns on these areas. If I look at our Q4 numbers, I know that some are edging up on the ECL charges. Is any parts of that related to CRE and what is our outlook on CRE in both regions? Thank you.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
160,qa,,1.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"I’m happy to take the question, thank you. You’re absolutely right. It is really because all of the stage 3s, virtually – a very large majority is coming through from the secured and, given the cover, ECL coverage is dropping through. But also we’ve written off some of the China CRE exposure overall, and you should think in terms of total exposures that we have, and that’s also reducing the ECL coverage.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
161,qa,9.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"Good morning, Pam. Good morning, Georges. I had two questions. I think you’re pointing to much better pre-provision profit outlook than consensus. I guess we’ve laboured the discussion around costs, but my takeaway is that it is broadly flattish beyond 2025, and maybe a bit of growth, but well lower than where the street is. I think Banking NII guidance also speaks for itself, so there are two related questions to that. One is around non-interest income. There’s a lot of moving parts on non-interest income, but I think you’re coming in with significant momentum on non-interest income, in excess of consensus, but we do have a lot of moving parts there. Is there anything you can do to help us? I know you don’t like to talk too much about non-interest income, because there’s volatile line items in it, but you’ve got double-digit growth momentum in wealth management, trade that’s probably growing low to mid-single digits. Who knows what markets do, but they’re probably not going backwards. Then you’ve got a retail piece as well. But it just does feel like that is something that is trending well in excess. So if you were able to comment in respect of 2025 consensus, that would be really helpful. The second is about Banking NII. So the $42 billion guidance this year is great. And I know there’s a lot of focus on lending, but really it’s deposits that matter, right? You alluded to the strength of your franchise. And loans are going to be subdued for a while, but deposits are already growing and, indeed, they’re going to continue growing from here. Can you try and help us with that? Are you able to quantify the deposit growth and average interest-earning asset growth that we might look to expect? Because I think you can comfortably grow your balance sheet despite a subdued demand dynamic in your key markets. I think that would helps underpin the Banking NII beyond 2025. My last question, then, is around FX and if you were to mark to market any of the cost guidance, for example, for the spot FX rate, if that would affect any of your guidance or commentary today, that would be really helpful. Thanks so much.",2024,Q4,False,250220-4q-2024-annual-results-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
162,presentation,,,Georges Elhedery,Group Chief Executive,HSBC,"Welcome, all, to today ’s call .  I’m joined here in London by Pam .  Before Pam takes you through the numbers, I would like to begin with some opening remarks .  Overall, there was a strong quarter, marked by three key drivers – momentum in our earnings, discipline in our execution, and confidence in our ability to deliver our targets. First, we have strong momentum in our business .  We had a strong first quarter, with profit before tax up 11%, and an annualised return on tangible equity of 18.4%, both excluding notable items .  We had our fifth cons ecutive  quarter of double -digit growth in Wealth, and attracted net new invested asset s of $22 billion, as well as another 300,000 new -to-bank customers in Hong Kong, continuing the trend from last year .  We also had a strong performance in Transaction Banking, in particular in FX, and our equities and debt trading businesses, benefiting from h igher client activity on the back of higher volatility. Second, we remain focused on executing our strategy with discipline, and are on track to deliver the cost actions we set out in February .  We are progressing at pace to deliver on the simplification -related cost saves, as well as the strategic cost reallocations .  We also continue to take a disciplined approach to our investments and capital allocation to drive growth across our four businesses .  We will provide you with a full update on this at the half -year results in July. Third, the external macroeconomic environment is less favourable and more uncertain than it was in February, as the uncertainty around trade policy dampens business confidence and constrains investment .  However, we remain confident in our ability to deliver our targets .  Our balance sheet is strong .  This is reflected in the deposit surpluses we hold in every major currency in each of our four businesses, in every geography in which we operate .  This is why our clients place their trust in us during times of predictability, and even more so during times of unpredictability .  These provide us with a steady recurring income stream and underpin the lion’s share of our Banking NII .  Growing our structural hedge has reduced the sensitivity of these revenues to interest rate cuts .  Our balance sheet is also underpinned by a strong capital position and a high -quality credit portfolio .  We also have resilient recurring fee income from stable flow -based activities in Transaction Banking and in Wealth, with a much sma ller contribution from Investment Banking  event -driven business. I encourage you to keep the diversity and quality of our earnings in mind when considering how changes in trade policy will affect our business .  Our Wholesale Transaction Banking business covers much broader activities than those related to cross -border trade .  And within our trade finance business, we have diverse products and cover all major global and intraregional corridors. To assess the impact higher tariffs could have on our business, we modelled scenarios that contemplate significant but plausible increases in tariffs by the world ’s largest trading blocs, resulting in a notable slowdown in global trade, as well as a slowdown in global GDP growth . In a plausible downside tariff scenario, we estimate that there will be a low -single -digit percentage impact on the group’s revenues .  Separately, our consensus downside scenario models a slowdown in global trade and GDP growth as  a result of an increase in tariffs .  The impact of this scenario would be incremental ECLs of $0.5 billion .  On this basis, we remain confident in delivering a mid -teens return on tangible equity for 2025, 2026 and 2027, and are reaffirming all of the guidance that we gave in February. We recognise, though, that the broader impacts of the current conditions are more difficult to quantify, and we will continue to monitor these as we formulate our ongoing outlook . Page 2 of 13 Importantly, in the current environment, customers look for the strength, stability and expertise of a trusted partner .  We are extremely well -positioned to support all of our customers, wherever they are, however their needs evolve and whatever the market conditions. Finally, we ’re also pleased to announce an up to $3 billion share buyback, and a 10 cents per share interim dividend, reflecting our continued focus on capital returned to our investors. With that, let me hand over to Pam.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
163,qa,1.0,,Benjamin Toms,Analyst,RBC,"Good morning, both, and thank you for taking my questions .  Firstly, you mentioned in the release that you’ve launched a strategic review of Malta .  At full -year results, we were relatively early in the strategic refresh process .  Are there other geographies that you’re also strategically reviewing ?  At full -year results, you talked about $1.5 billion of gross cost saves .  Now you’re deeper into that process, have you seen any potential to be able to achieve cost saves in excess of that  target? And then, secondly, one of the features of your Q1 results was the strength  in fees and other income .  Can you provide some colour on how substantial that print is and how much is driven by the augmented volatility ?  Thank you.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,analyst
164,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Ben, just to add, for the quarter, there’s been good performance, and there’s been high level of client activity, which has benefited FX, debt, equities, markets, and Wealth . Also, I want to just remind that one benefit was also the Argentina headwind that we had of $0.2 billion in Q1 of ’24, which, obviously, didn’t repeat in this quarter because of the sale .  But the key franchise factors are Wealth – it’s a structural growth, and those dynamics will persist . They are driven by our brand .  They’re driven by the range of products we have to offer, the improvements we’ve made in terms of technology, and that investment is going to pay .  And as Georges said, we stay confident in terms of double -digit growth in the medium term. On Wholesale Transaction Banking, it remains an area of competitive advantage .  We will continue to grow there, but it’s going to be hard to predict quarter to quarter, especially in the current environment .  Volatility has definitely benefited us in this quarter, so it may not repeat at the very high levels that we’ve seen in this quarter, but we are still continuing to see underlying growth as we have progressed through in Q2.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
165,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"T hanks, Joseph, for the question .  So firstly, broadly , in terms of context setting, every quarter , we do a range of scenario analysis .  This quarter, we looked at the significant but plausible downside scenario resulting from an increase in tariffs .  We ho med in on one scenario after looking at a range of possible outcomes, which, as you know, are uncertain and remain very wide. Page 5 of 13 So the specific scenario which we ho med into was based on a significant increase in tariffs, as well as retaliatory tariffs .  We also took a holistic approach .  We considered different businesses, different geographies, as well as customer segments , and this scenario resulted in a significant decline in trade and a significant slowdown in global GDP growth. We looked at the impact of this both in terms of revenue through lower balances, but also on flow-based income .  In addition, just like we took a reserve of $150 million in this quarter from a downside scenario, we further looked at the downside scenario on a 100% probability basis and came up with a number , which is the $0.5 billion provision best estimate in terms of the tariffs.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
166,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"With regards to new-to-bank customers in Hong Kong, we were pleased to announce that we acquired 300,000 new -to-bank customers in Q1 .  This is after we acquired 800,000 new -to-bank customers in the full year 2024, and we continue to see that trend ongoing .  Thank you very much, Joseph.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
167,qa,3.0,,Kunpeng Ma,Analyst,China Securities,"Hi, George s.  Hi, Pam .  This is Kunp eng of China Securities .  Thank you for taking my question .  I have two questions .  The first is also some follow -ups on the plausible downside trade scenario .  If we compare the  – you have two scenario tests  – one for trade, one for ECL  – and we got your set of assumptions for those ECL tests from your annual report .  So if we compare those two tests, are the assumptions for the trade test better or worse than the  – I mean  the downside scen ario – better  or worse than those set of assumptions used in the ECL test ?  And also, is the low single -digit revenue impact just for some one -year revenue or for every year’s revenue thereafter ?  That’s the first question. The second question is, could you please give us some colo ur on the latest trend on Hong Kong CRE ?  Thank you.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,analyst
168,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Kun peng.  So we’re not going to get into the detail, but the underpinning of the scenarios, whether it’s ECLs or , indeed , on revenue, has the same starting point .  And we are comfortable , based on the work we have done , to reaffirm our guidance on R oTE.  I just want to be clear that the scenario does not include the secondary impact of any change in policy rates in terms of the revenue -related scenario .  Secondly, none of these two scenarios have what you call an extreme downside to scenario , with a double -digit contraction of GDP like we saw in the Covid period , just to give you some guardrails. So in terms of Hong Kong CRE, this was a relatively quiet quarter .  We did have one specific name, which , in the performing book, there was a credit downgrade .  Otherwise, there’s really nothing more significant .  We continue to look at our book in detail, and there may be a few names up or down on the credit curve , with very modest impact on RWAs, but no significant impact on ECLs.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
169,qa,4.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"Hey, George s.  Hey, Pam .  Thanks very much for the various updates and sensitivities that you’ve given us .  I had two questions just around customer behavio ur.  So I just wondered if you’d observed any material shift in the way that your customers are transacting with you .  Have you seen any forward indicators around sentiment, any signs of de -risking or de -leveraging, any shift in particularly your corporate customers that might be on the receiving end of trade tariffs ?  Any insight s there would be really helpful. And then the second is, definitely get the message around continuing to execute on the existing strategy .  I guess just two related points to that , one around capital returns .  It’s great that you’ve announced a $3 billion buyback .  You’re talking about a more subdued outl ook for lending by extension RWAs , so presumably you might be quite capital generative this year .  So it seems like you’re committed to distributions despite the uncertainty .  It’s an uncertain backdrop, but the pace of distributions that you’re executing on , it feels like you’re committed to that .  Is that the right rea d?  Should we be confident around things like the buyback sustainability from here ? Page 6 of 13 And just the related part of that question , then, is just around, you talk about divestiture on track – the $1.5 billion .  But in terms of the redeploy, because I think you talked about some potential revenue opportunities from the redeploy or cost savings, if it doesn’t come through, are you minded to delay any of this redeploy, basically, given the volatile backdrop ?  Thank you.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,analyst
170,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"V ery good .  Thank you very much, Aman .  I’m going to take your first question about customer behavio ur, and I’ll ask Pam to address both our capital return strategy, as well as the cost redeployment from the reallocations. So in terms of customer behavio ur, I think nothing that would really surprise you .  Corporate customers , essentially , are in a wait -and-see mode , so some of the capex or large investments are on hold .  Certainly, some of the shipments from China, specifically to the US, have slowed down, but we’ve seen no panic .  So there’s been no significant drawdowns .  Deposit behavio ur has remained normal , so nothing really to call out beyond the wait and see. In terms of personal banking and Wealth customers ’ activity, this has been quite strong . Remember, we have a diversified product offering .  So we’ve seen customers rebalance their investments between various offerings, be it various geographic equity exposure or other assets, such as mutual funds or structured products .  And when customers want to take a risk-off approach, we see the money flow into our deposit base , so we capture the customer assets  either in invested assets or in deposits. But when we look at our NNIA for the first three months of the year, it remained positive, strong , so we remain positive on the outlook of the growth in this business .  Remember also, we’re investing in this business, so we’re capturing the underlying growth in the market, but we’re also capturing market share in the way we’re investing in this business .  Pam?",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
171,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Aman .  So just one point to add on the Wealth customer behavio urs. Our strength really lies in our very broad product proposition .  So as we see the mix shift between US equities or Asian equities, or , indeed , into short -term fixed income products, we are there to support our customers, as well as in terms of insurance on more protection and savings -related products .  So that gives us confidence that this double -digit growth continues, and we have seen the same trend even through April, and the same trend also, no panic, no drawdowns, and deposit behavio ur normal through April .  So that’s just to set that. So coming down to distribution , just as a starting point, we have our policy on ordinary dividends .  I’m assuming your question is much more on share buybacks, but let me see overall on the process we follow .  Every quarter, we look at where we are in terms of our CET1, and you know our CET1 operating range is between 14 % to 14.5% .  We also look at our capital generation, less the capital needs or capital deployment that we want to do .  And what’s very important is , routinely, we look at a range of scenario s in terms of the macroeconomic environment, and then , based on that, we look at the quantum on share buybacks. And clearly, if we have excess capital, share buybacks continues to be our preferred method to return capital .  We have not changed our view on capital redeployment, but , as I’ve said, we look at opportunities, we look at the generative capability, quarter on quarter, and that’s how we make the decision on the quantum of share buybacks.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
172,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,And on the redeployment of costs ?,2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
173,qa,,4.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Yeah, on the redeployment of costs, absolutely .  So far, we have not made any change to the timeline of what we said we would do .  That redeployment is going to be through the midterm period, so between ’25, ’26, and ’27.  Clearly, in terms of the macroeconomic uncertainty, we are very mindful , in this current environment , that there may be some delays, but, overall, it doesn’t shift the trajectory or , indeed , the transactions that we have both announced and are working on .  They are progressing as we expected.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
174,qa,5.0,,Jason Napier,Analyst,UBS,"Good m orning . So two questions, please .  The first, George s, HSBC is a signatory to a letter suggesting to the UK regulators that ringfencing is something that should go .  I think that’s the right view, but we’ve got a lot of investor demand for a sense from you as to the motivation for that .  What is it that you’d say in terms of opex funding costs and Page 7 of 13 what restructuring charges may go with that ?  So when you made that motivation, what was the maths behind it? And then , secondly, very strong performance in costs in Q1, but guidance held constant for the year ahead .  I guess that implies potentially some slippage in efficiency ratios in the quarters to come, notwithstanding the cost -saving actions that are underway .  Could you talk a little bit about the moving parts, just quarter -to-quarter volatility ?  Is there anything we should be thinking about in the upcoming quarters as far as cost inflation is concerned ?  Thanks very much.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,analyst
175,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Jason .  So firstly, we manage costs to a full -year number .  And quarter on quarter, you can see some volatility .  But just to clarify, our full -year 2025 guidance of plus 3% is on a base of $31.9 billion, which is the full -year ’24 restated to the average FX for Q1 2025 .  So just unbundling that, the 3%, the dependenc y is on  the 4% inflation investment spend and the benefit of $0.3 billion, so the 1% from the P&L saves from the simplification as we guided at Q4, and the actions that are going to reali se that $300 million in the year have been already broadly taken , so the P&L will come through in subsequent months.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
176,qa,6.0,,Kian Abouhossein,Analyst,J P MORGAN,"H i, George s and Pam .  Thanks for taking my questions . Great results, but , clearly , the focus is on the new tariff world , and I want to try to understand, first of all, your targeting guidance around interest rates in particular, but also GDP assumptions .  You mentioned mid -April, but , clearly , a lot happened in April , so I’m just trying to understand what date or what week we should use as guidance in terms of interest rate assumption, if you could give maybe GDP assumptions. And secondly, coming to your sensitivities or your analysis around tariff impact, if you could discuss again interest rate assumptions , in particular in GDP, but also your assumptions about China as a trading counterparty in terms of your revenues versus the corridors you talk about, because , clearly , really , in the new world, the corridors seem to be impacted as well .  So are you assuming corridors can grow , or do you assume corridors would also be negatively impacted in a new tariff world? And lastly, in that context, can you just talk about cost flexibility , as you didn’t discuss that?",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,analyst
177,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"T hank you, Kian .  So firstly, just to reiterate, the $42 billion banking NII continues to be our best estimate for full -year 2025 .  Now, we’ve looked at a range of reasonable upside /downside assumptions, including rates, but we are not immune to all scenarios , despite the stress work that we have done .  Our Q1 run rate of $10.6 billion puts us on a good trajectory, given that range of scenarios we’ve looked at  – all plausible upsides and downsides. Now, as always, there are four key drivers .  The rates that we have included are based on the mid-April curves .  The structural hedge will be a tailwind to this headwind of rates .  We have $75 billion maturities in the remainder of the year, and they are on 2.8% yield at the moment, so there’ll be an upside to that .  The other two elements are harder to forecast, particularly in terms of balance sheet growth, as we’ve said before, and loans stay muted .  Having said that, loans and advances were slightly up in the first quarter of this year, primarily because Hong  Kong loans and advances were stable compared to Q4 last year where they had contracted. Now, the deposit migration trend from Hong Kong has stayed stable over last year into this year, at 39%, and that is continuing even through April .  So if I look at it in the round in terms of deposit behavio urs of our customers, both from a corporate side as well as from a retail side, we stay quite comfortable. So on tariffs, just in terms of the broad piece, what we have looked at from a tariff perspective is – and it’s all in terms of seeing the various scenarios , in terms of delivering the mid -teens RoTE.  Firstly, we looked at our income stream beyond banking NII, which is Wholesale Transaction Banking, and it has many more products beyond trade finance.  It also is in diverse products within trade finance and their diverse global and intra -regional corridors.  When we have looked at the downside scenario, we’ve looked at higher tariffs, we have l ooked at impact on GDP, we have looked more broadly at policy rates, inflation – the big picture – but again, to say we have not looked at GDP to the stress level of a downside two scenario that we have called out in our release, which is like a double -digit contraction of GDP as we saw in the Covid period. So if we look at all that, we come to a low single -digit percentage impact on revenues, and within that and within the incremental $500 million ECLs, we stay very confident for our mid - teens RoTE for the next three years.  Now, the broader impacts are going to be hard to quantify. These are your second, third order impacts, but we continue to monitor them through our various scenarios and review them quarter -on-quarter. Page 9 of 13 On costs, our cost trajectory is on track, and given this, there’s no shift on that, and we will still continue through our envelope to be able to invest in the areas which we have been, as Georges has said, because we can see the direct benefit coming ver y quickly in those areas, even in the current environment and continuing through April, and that’s primarily on the wealth side.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
178,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Okay, thank you, Amit.  Amit, I’m going to ask Pam to comment on your second question, but on your first question, we’re not going to give more details than what we’ve shared, but I think your analogy to say that it’s downside one like sc enario in the sense that it is adverse but plausible is correct.  And within that scenario, without additional cost actions than the one that we have set out to do and are on -track for doing, and obviously committed to do, we are confident we can achieve o ur targets, in particular our targets of mid - teen returns for ’25, ’26 and ’27.  Pam.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
179,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,I’m going to ask Pam to address both your questions on banking NII.,2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
180,qa,,4.0,Andrew Coombs,management,HSBC,"Morning.  If I could have a couple on the organisational simplification and then also just one clarification on wealth.  On the organisational simplification, you previously guided to $1.8 billion of restructuring costs, and you said the majority of that is expected to be booked in 2025.  I think you only took $141 million in Q1, so presumably, we should expect a big step -up in the restructuring charges from Q2 onwards for the rest of this year.  And then the second question attac hed to this is you said that the actions you’ve taken to date would already translate into $300 million of annualised savings.  I appreciate in Q1, you’ve had very little of that, but nonetheless, you’re still guiding to $300 million for the full year 2025 when you’ve already achieved $300 million annualised and there’s presumably more to come over the remaining year with the additional restructuring.  So can you just clarify a bit there on why more of the savings are not flowing into full -year 2025 compare d to 2026? And then on wealth, given the new segmental split, is it possible to get the split of the Asian invested assets and the $16 billion Asian net new invested assets this quarter that’s attributable to Hong Kong?  Thank you.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
181,qa,,5.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Okay, thank you, Andrew.  Andrew, I’m going to ask Pam to address the first two questions with regard to the organisation simplification.  Just saying that, we will give, as I said earlier, a more thorough update at the interim results, a nd on your final question, let us take it forward and see what we can communicate.  $16 billion of net new invested assets in Asia with the majority in Hong Kong, but we will take it forward to see what additional granularity we’re likely to share.  Pam.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
182,qa,,6.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Thanks, Andy.  So firstly, in terms of the actions taken and the P&L coming through for the year, the actions taken typically is when you have colleagues put through at risk and decisions made, communicated.  There is always a time lag typically between that and colleagues leaving the platform.  Typically, in tends to be about a quarter – 90 days.  So when you see an action has been taken, you know a saving is going to come through but there is going to be a time lag between that decision and the savings feeding into the P&L.  So when we said the majority of the actions have already been taken, the annualised savings that we calculated, it’s for the full year.  So it’s not as though these actions are already banked and there’s going to be further, so that’s the main piece. Now, on restructuring costs, you’re absolutely right that there is going to be the majority of the restructuring cost taken in 2025 rather than 2026, and I would expect most of that to come through Q2, Q3 and then some Q4 and tapering down as we go into 20 26.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
183,qa,9.0,,Ed Firth,Analyst,KBW,"Good morning, everybody.  Thanks very much for taking the questions.  I just had a couple.  The first one – I noticed that your cost guidance is based on an average Page 11 of 13 exchange rate in Q1, but the US dollar is off 6% since then, so I assume that if we were to actually do that at today’s exchange rate, your cost number would be somewhat higher than that.  I’m just trying to check – is your revenue guidance also based on t hose exchange rates? Is it effectively like we should gear up both revenue and costs for the weakened dollar in terms of our expectations?  That’s the first point. I guess partly related to that, are we actually in the plausible downside scenario now?  Trade flows from China to the US are down 45% booking, something like that.  That feels to me like a pretty downside scenario.  Should we assume that as we go through Q2 and Q3, we are actually in that scenario now?  Is that effectively where we are, assuming nothing changes? And I guess nobody has any idea what will happen in terms of the changes, but assuming we stay where we are today. And then my second question was just about Bocom .  I can’t really understand the accounting, because you’re still running with a valuation that’s $10 billion above the market value, but you didn’t subscribe for new shares with the capital raise , which I assume you would have done if you had thought it really was worth that much more.  Should we be expecting you to correct that down to what would be a market price rather than just the $1.6bn?  Should we be revisiting how you do the – I think you call it valu e in use, something like that.  Thanks very much.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,analyst
184,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Okay, thank you very much, Ed.  Let me take your plausible downside scenario, and I’ll ask Pam to address the cost question as well as the Bocom  accounting question.  So the adverse plausible downside scenario is a scenario that is further adverse from where we are today, with significantly higher global tariffs on major trading blocks on an aggregate basis, and we’ve looked at their impact across  obviously our trade business but more importantly across over all our volumes and the economi c outlook of our businesses on the whole.  We do recognise that there is uncertainty and it’s very difficult to understand how much downside or upside there is in the future outlook for this, but we believe this plausible downside scenario is not the expec ted scenario, as in it is a lower probability downside than the expected scenario.  Pam ?",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
185,qa,,3.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"So Ed, the share issuance was subscribed by government or government -related entities in China.  We were happy with our holding as it is, and therefore we’re happy with the outcome.  With regards to the actual accounting value, I would pr obably point you to the investor relations team which can take you through some of the specificities of the equity accounting principles which are quite unique in the way we treat the associate accounting  of Bocom .  I just want to re -emphasise we’re happy with our holding in Bocom . We’re happy with our strategic relationship with Bocom  and the fact that they give us exposure to the domestic economy in China, be it retail, SME, outlook, which is not something our organic business is involved in, and very importantly, what Pam said – the valuation in our NAV is Page 12 of 13 deducted from CET1, which means these impairments have a very minimal second order impact on our CET1 ratio, and therefore also do not impact our distribution capability.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
186,qa,,4.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"And Ed, very happy to, offline, go through with you on the equity accounting treatment and the rest in detail.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
187,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Yeah, thanks, Katherine.  So absolutely, being a stress downside scenario, plausible but severe, we typically take the downside.  We don’t take the upside of the mitigating actions or any other policy measures.  It’s purely tariffs and retaliator y tariffs in a plausible range.  So all said and done, just want to reaffirm it was all calculated as part of the target RoTE guidance that we are giving. On loan growth, the situation is, in some ways, similar to where were at the end of Q4, because macroeconomic uncertainty delays decision -making, so we are not seeing any of those capex decisions being brought forward.  They were delayed.  They will continue to be delayed. Hopefully at some stage, some certainty remains there will be loan growth.  We are also monitoring very closely to see if there is any increase in drawdowns, just lik e we observed in Q2 of 2020.  At this point of time, there is no increa se in drawdowns.  So overall from a loan growth perspective, I will say still muted in terms of what we are seeing.  The only thing I would say is that if there is continued tariff uncertainty, you will see maybe a little bit of pick -up from an OpEx perspe ctive on working capital, because then you have to pay important duties up front and there’s some delays and some of the money’s coming and so on, so that will have an impact.  But from a materiality perspective, the real driver for our banking NII guidanc e of $42 billion is really deposits, for which we have a very strong franchise.  We are in a privileged position to be a trusted partner for our customers, and we expected that to grow.  Of course, there’ll be a bit of seasonal fluctuation quarter -on-quarter, bu t overall that trend has continued.",2025,Q1,False,250429-1q-2025-earnings-release-investors-and-analysts-call-transcript.pdf,
188,presentation,,,Georges Elhedery,Group Chief Executive,HSBC,"Welcome, all, to today’s call. I’m joined by Pam. Before Pam takes you through the second quarter numbers, I will cover three items: our first half performance, the external environment and the progress we’re making against the targets we set out. Turning to our performance, the momentum we saw in the first quarter continued into the second quarter. Our half-year performance was strong. Excluding notable items, revenue in the first half grew 6% to $35.4 billion. Profit before tax was 5% higher at $18.9 billion. On the same basis, annualised return on tangible equity was 18.2%, up 1.2% year-on-year. Our four businesses sustained momentum in their earnings. In our Hong Kong home market business, we attracted 100,000 new-to-bank customers every month this year on average, reflecting strong customer growth and solid deposit inflows. In our UK home market business, our loan book grew by $6 billion over the quarter on a constant currency basis. We were particularly encouraged by signs of recovery in lending, growth and Commercial Banking, with loans growing by $3.5 billion on the same basis. We grew Fee and other income in both Wealth and Wholesale Transaction Banking. For the second quarter, we announced a $0.10 dividend per share alongside a share buy-back of up to $3 billion. This brings total shareholder distributions in respect of the half-year to $9.5 billion. Turning to the external environment, we enter this period of uncertainty from a position of strength. In this complex environment, customers are looking for a trusted financial partner. Our differentiated strengths are clear. First, our hallmark financial strength, underpinned by a strong balance sheet and high-quality credit portfolio, has helped us deepen our customer relationships and grow deposits by $83 billion from the same period last year. This is after adding back balances held for sale. Our $1.7 trillion deposit base drives the lion’s share of our banking NII. Despite HIBOR headwinds, other tailwinds have allowed us to reiterate our full- year banking NII guidance of around $42 billion. In Hong Kong commercial real estate, while some short-term challenges remain, we are confident in the overall credit quality of the book. Second, our long-standing experience of facilitating financial flows globally and our international network, especially across the world’s fastest-growing trade and investment routes. We delivered 5% growth in Wholesale Transaction Banking Fee and other income in the second quarter. Our Trade Fee and other income grew by 4%, reflecting our leading position across fast-growing intra-regional trade corridors, as well as our continued investments in the services trade sector. We have 5,000 trade specialists in more than 50 markets operating on both sides of trade flows. They bring significant expertise and real-time insight to our customers. Third, we are seeing continued momentum in our Wealth business. We are ideally placed to capture the increasing number of affluent and high-net-worth customers in the fastest-growing wealth markets in Asia and the Middle East, where we are investing at scale. Turning next to the progress we are making against our organisational simplification targets, as set out in February, this initiative is meant to make the group simple and more agile. Cost efficiency is one of the benefits. We are on track to deliver the circa $1.5 billion of simplification saves by the end of 2026. To remind you, these are primarily through the de-duplication of roles and will have no meaningful impact on revenue. The saves will be taken straight to the bottom line, $0.4 billion of which will be in the P&L in 2025, revised upwards from $0.3 billion, and the full $1.5 billion will be fully realised in 2027. Pam will go into more details. Turning to the progress we’re making in our exit of non-strategic activities, we are progressing at pace. We have rigorously reviewed our portfolio against our strategic priorities. Since the first quarter results, we have announced the sale of our business in Uruguay, UK life insurance subsidiary, German custody business, and German fund administration business, our stake in Grupo Galicia, and our French portfolio of home and other loans retained following the disposal of our retail operations in France. While Asia is at the heart of our growth strategy, we want to provide clarity on our footprint in Asia. Earlier this year, we commenced a targeted strategic review of our retail business in four markets in Asia. Three of these reviews – Australia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka – are ongoing, and no decisions have been made yet. The fourth in Bangladesh has completed, and we will start to wind down the retail business there in the second half of this year. To be clear, our Corporate Institutional Banking business is unaffected by these reviews, and all four markets remain critical to our international network for CIB customers. Costs released from the exits of our non-strategic activities will be invested in our priority growth areas. These are areas where we have clear competitive advantage and can generate accretive returns. Let’s turn to them now. We are investing with intent. In our home markets, we said we would expand the number of wealth centres and enhance our wealth capabilities. In Hong Kong, which is set to become the world’s leading cross-border wealth hub, we have opened one new state-of-the-art wealth centre, with two more opening in the coming month. In the UK, we have opened our first wealth centre in London and reduced the threshold for Wealth investments. We have also relaunched our Premier wealth brand targeting mass affluent customers. In the UK also, our improved coverage model for SME banking is bringing our relationship managers closer to customers. This is reflected in our Trustpilot score, which has improved to a four-star ranking. In CIB, we launched HSBC TradePay for Import Duties. It targeted financing solutions for our US customers, which simplifies the payment of import duties whilst helping them optimise working capital. We have also launched HSBC tokenised deposit services in Hong Kong and Singapore, with the UK and Luxembourg expected to launch in September, and the US, UAE and other markets in 2026. These next-generation programmable cross-border payments move money in real time, always on, across our network. They are a step towards our ambition of delivering global instant cross-border payments. We have also enhanced our payment tracking solution, which now provides a global view of payment status, improving our client experience. In IWPB, we have opened 13 dedicated wealth centres, including in mainland China, Singapore and Malaysia. We have also refreshed our Premier banking proposition, which will launch in the UAE, India, Malaysia and the US in the second half of this year. In the UAE, which is home to more than 200 nationalities, we have simplified our onboarding process for certain customers to open a bank account before they relocate into the UAE. Each of these will drive customer acquisition, deepen wealth penetration, grow our share of mandates and enable us to capture greater share of corridor flows. Finally, we are modernising the bank through AI, GenAI and automation. We are improving our technology productivity with coding assistance. Today, more than 20,000 engineers are 15% more efficient in coding because of our new tools. GenAI is being used across five CIB markets to bring process efficiency to our credit analysis write-ups. We are also focused on improving customer service through AI-supported mobile apps and strengthened contact centre capabilities. The key message is we have continued ramping up investments in these areas. Further momentum will build as our exits complete, releasing investment capacity to redeploy into our priority growth areas in line with our disciplined cost and capital allocation framework. In summary, we enter this uncertain macroeconomic environment from a position of distinctive strength, underpinned by our hallmark financial strength, our global connectivity and our expertise. We remain well positioned to support our customers as their trusted financial partner. We have strong momentum in our business and are well positioned for growth. We are investing for growth, and we are delivering growth, and we are executing our strategy with discipline and at pace. The positive progress we’re making gives us confidence in our ability to deliver our targets. We reaffirm our mid-teens return on tangible equity guidance, excluding notable items, for each of 2025, 2026 and 2027. Let me now hand over to Pam. Thank you.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
189,qa,1.0,,Benjamin Toms,Analyst,RBC,"The first one’s on your banking NII guidance of $42 billion. You also provided some useful guidance on one-month HIBOR sensitivity at 1%. Can you just give some more colour on the assumption that you’ve made within your banking NII guidance in relation to the time it will take HIBOR to return to normalised levels? And then, secondly, on cost of risk, the guidance range is 30 to 40 basis points, and you’ve been at the top end of that range now for a couple of years. Is it a sensible assumption really to think that you’ll remain in the top half of this range for at least FY26? Thank you.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
190,qa,,1.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"The $42 billion guidance includes market expectations of HIBOR implied above 2% in third quarter. So we’ve already said that HIBOR at a 1% impacts us by $100 million per month, so if you look overall, our HIBOR expectations as well as the impact of the $100 million – all these are included when you look at our overall confidence in the BNII guidance for the year. The BNII guidance is not just based on the forward curves. As we know, in Q2, very low HIBOR impacted us for around six to seven weeks. We have given more detail of it in the appendix, but a couple of things have moved around. The time deposits are now four points lower, and you look at those factors, and as we look for the rest of the year, there will be some upside and downside in terms of the timing of when the HIBOR shifts happen, as well as the dollar depreciation, how long it continues. In Q2, it was a tailwind for us. In terms of ECLs, so from an ECL perspective, we only give you the 2025 number. It’s fair to say that we have always in the last few years stayed between the 30 to 40 basis points, sometimes a bit to the upper end, so we’re not giving any guidance beyond 2025 at this stage.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
191,qa,2.0,,Kian Abouhossein,Analyst,JP Morgan,"Two questions: the first one is related to tariffs. You gave guidance of 5% impact on revenues and I just wanted to see how we should think about that going forward, as you don’t see anything in the numbers today. And the second question is related to stage 1 and stage 2 movements. Clearly, your stage 2 has deteriorated. You discuss PDs, which have been adjusted, and I’m trying to understand a little bit more detail around your movements, in particular in the corporate and commercial bank, in terms of potential realised losses, but also model adjustments versus environment.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
192,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"On tariffs, first, tariffs have never been a new feature of global trade. They have always been there, although we have seen recently a more significant shift in the US tariff policy. That’s created more uncertainty but, at the same time now, we’re encouraged to see that more agreements are being concluded, and this is giving us ideally more certainty as we look into the future. There are important things to call out. One, as you did see from our Q2 results, our trade Fee and other income has grown by 4%, and the reasons are multiple. First, we are positioned across some of the fastest growing trade corridors on the planet, specifically the ones in Asia or between Asia and the Middle East and various parts of the world where trade continues to grow significantly higher trends than some of the more traditional trade corridors and we have a leadership position across these intra-Asia, Asia-Middle East corridors. Second is we kept investing at pace in our services trade sector and now we have capabilities there and we’re able to capture much faster growth in the services trade sector than what has been the growth exhibited in the goods trade sector and that’s another area of strength for HBSC. Third, even in trade so far that the US is involved in, imports into the US, some of the unique propositions we’ve put forward such as TradePay have given unique support to US importers in helping them manage their working capital facilities and helping them meet the duties they are due to pay for tariffs in a way that allowed us to continue growing our business and gaining share. You put all of this together – you put the expertise we have with more than 5,000 trade specialists across more than 50 markets where we operate – and you can see the resilience of our business to uncertainty. Actually, it is a period where we can differentiate, continue gaining market share, deepening customer relationships, acquiring more customers and this is what we envisage for the expertise we have and the strength we have in our trade business. With regards to scenarios, I would like Pam to take you through it, but remember some of these scenarios are including extreme market movements such as interest rates at 1% which have material impact beyond the pure trade impact on our business.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
193,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Firstly, in terms of our scenarios, we continue to update them on a quarterly basis.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
194,qa,3.0,,Kunpeng Ma,Analyst,China Securities,"I have two questions on impairments. The first one is related to the BoCom impairment, especially that one with the VIU test. It seems that you conduct a VIU test every quarter, but you don’t charge impairments every quarter. It seems that the impairment charges always come together with other bad news. When you first charge the VIU impairment in the fourth quarter of 2023, you got French disposal loss, you got a slight miss on the cost control, so you charged the first time and, in this quarter, you got the BoCom dilution impairment. I also cover Chinese banks. Their fundamentals are weak, but there were no sudden drops in fundamentals in the second quarter. It seems that VIU impairment charges always come together with other bad news. Can you share with us a little bit more colour on the factors triggering that kind of VIU impairment charge?",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
195,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"With Hong Kong CRE, the first thing, as you may expect, is we know this market very well. We’ve been in Hong Kong for 160 years, involved in the sector, and we’re comfortable with the position in this market. That’s very important to call out. Specifically, as regards residential development, this has stabilised. This has stabilised and we’re encouraged by that. It’s stabilised mostly because of policy support measures that have been taken, as well as because of a robust rental market more recently but, when we look wider in the CRE space, specifically around the office CRE space in Hong Kong, we’re still struggling because of some oversupply in this space. We are encouraged by some additional government action taken to restrict land sales and office CRE and this should work its way into the medium term by restricting supply and supporting the recovery of pricing in this space, but there will be some short-term pressure. Of the exposure we have on Hong Kong CRE, we basically called out less than 5% of it – around $1.5 billion of that exposure – where we continue to look with focus and attention. That $1.5 billion is to the weak borrowers that are either sub-standard or credit impaired, where the long- term value of the collateral is above 70%. Against this $1.5 billion, we have a $0.5 billion ECL. It gives you a quantum of what a worst case scenario in this space can be and that is the segment we’re looking at. Across the wider spectrum on Hong Kong CRE, what I can say is our mission is obviously to continue to support our customers as they work through some of the short-term challenges they’re going through but, in the medium to long term, we remain confident in the supply/demand dynamic in Hong Kong and the appeal of Hong Kong real estate at large and, therefore, remain constructive and optimistic about the medium to long term. The comment I want to make on BoCom is it’s purely coincidental. There is no correlation whatsoever between an accounting process related to the VIU process versus any other information, but remember the BoCom impairments have no CET 1 impact. They have no CET 1 ratio impact. They have, therefore, also no distribution impact in terms of dividend or share buyback, so I really encourage you to look at it as a pure accounting but no actual economic impact to the bank.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
196,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"On Hong Kong CRE, our book is down $1 billion to $32 billion and it’s mainly because of repayments done at the unsecured end of the book, where the exposure is mainly to very strong, diverse conglomerates, which are nearly 95% rated Strong or Good and have had very little impairment. That’s 42% of our limits. The increase that we have seen in the impaired book, you’re right. $600 million is largely to the secured side of the portfolio and the ECL stage 2 allowance increase is entirely due to models. Out of that, the charge we’ve taken of $400 million in the quarter, $100 million is due to the modelling charges. As Georges has said, the area we are most focused on is the sub-standard and the credit impaired side of the book, where the exposure if $1.4 billion. There is already an existing ECL charge of $500 million, so you can see further down what it means from an outlook perspective. Overall, when we have refreshed our ECL guidance, we obviously stress it with upside, downside and some fairly stringent requirements and we continuously monitor our book and we think that overall guidance that we have given in terms of around 40 basis points captures the entirety of the risk in the Hong Kong CRE book as we look at it now. On BoCom – and, as Georges said, of course we do not link impairment timing to anything else. It’s a routine quarterly accounting process. Again, we use our models. It’s a value-in-use model. It is very sensitive to input factors, so even a small shift in basis points can make it move up or down and, when we make an impairment, it’s because the fair value from the model is below the carrying value. We have already given you details on the model’s sensitivity to the various inputs in our annual report and nothing has changed in that process.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
197,qa,4.0,,Aman Rakkar,Analyst,Barclays,"I had a couple of questions, please – one on net interest income and one on costs. It’s a two-part question on NII. At face value, your banking NII guidance is circa $42 billion for the year. Given that you’re annualising at $43 billion at H1, that does actually imply a pretty marked step off in net interest income in H2. I just want to query whether you really mean that or not? There’s obviously lots of moving parts at play here, but it implies a run rate for net interest income in H2, which I guess people will carry over into 2026. Is there an element of conservatism in that $42 billion? Is there just too much uncertainty around HIBOR? The second part of that first question, if I may, is: can you help me understand the levers that you’re pulling and are able to continue pulling from here to offset this HIBOR decline? I’m specifically thinking about deposit passthroughs. The second question is around costs, please. I’m just interested in how hard you are pushing the organisation right now to realise the cost savings because, outside in, I think you’re leading a bit of a quiet revolution across the firm, to the extent that you can, and I’m hopeful that you can realise additional cost savings over time. Georges, I’m really interested in your reflections. Are you running at maximum capacity now, in terms of what you’re trying to do? And just a modelling point. To me, next year – I think it should be flattish costs next year. I don’t think consensus has got that, but a 3.5% inflation rate on costs and the $1.1 billion of gross saves tells me it should be flat next year. If you can comment on that as well, that would be great. Thank you so much.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
198,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"First, cost discipline is ingrained in the firm quarter after quarter, year after year. It’s a commitment we have to this discipline. It’s our confidence in our ability to meet the commitments we have and it’s the fact that we are on track on all the cost items, be it our underlying cost or the cost saves. That one doesn’t change. In terms of the cost takeout, the cost takeout that’s taking place now that we’re calling out is a cost takeout related to organisation simplification. Remember it is an intention to simplify the organisation, make us simple and agile, but there’s obviously an ancillary benefit, which is a cost reduction from de-duplication of roles with limited impact on our revenue generation capabilities. That one is moving at pace, and we just revised upwards the saves we can achieve this year towards the target of $1.5 billion which we will take to the bottom line and we expect to achieve by the full-year 2026. There’s another cost takeout, which is exiting of non-strategic activities. We announced seven exits since the Q1 results. These in total will add up to about $1.5 billion of cost takeout. About a third has already been announced. A third is being worked on and we intend, once these cost saves are achieved, to reinvest this into our core revenue growth areas, strategic areas where we have competitive advantage and can generate accretive returns, but these are not the only levers we have on costs. We continue working on our operating leveraging cost. As you know, efficiency and productivity drives including through GenAI, automation and other modernisation of our capabilities will continue as a matter of regular course of business and these improvements will continue helping us manage our costs. I’m not going to comment on 2026 – we have not guided to it – just given the amount of saves we expect to achieve from the simplification in 2026. On banking NII, the one comment I’d like to make is that we continue growing our deposit base and continue being extremely liquid to support growth in loan as and when our customers start investing again. We called out $83 billion growth in our deposits over the last 12 months. That’s a 5% growth in our deposit base and our deposits drive the lion’s share of our banking NII and that’s a very important lever in the growth potential we can achieve in banking NII in terms of volume growth.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
199,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"Cost discipline will very much continue, not just into 2026, but further on as well and we also said earlier we will continue to invest in ways of increasing our productivity and that will be something which will be a priority for us. That’s something we can control and we have shown you a good track record in the first few quarters. We continue to focus on that. Coming down to banking NII - you’re right - around $42 billion. You may deem it to be conservative, if you just do the simple arithmetic, in terms of what the run rate takes us to and this quarter we had obviously the headwind from HIBOR, but it was offset to some extent by a weaker US dollar. The timing of how long the US dollar depreciation continues and on HIBOR also is important. We are assuming that there will be a sharp normalisation of HIBOR within this quarter to around the 2% mark. Obviously, any delay, even this delay of the month of July costs $100 million at a 1% HIBOR. What we will have as a benefit still coming in the rest of the year is the structural hedge, which is a tailwind. We’ve got a reinvestment of $55 billion in the second half at 2.8%. We have to reinvest and there’s an improvement of 2% on that in terms of the reinvestment rates as they stand, so that obviously is a tailwind. The balance sheet growth has been a real positive and it’s mainly driven by deposits. Our Hong Kong time deposit migration in a lower interest rate was four points into Q2, but obviously this can move up or down. In terms of levers to offset the HIBOR pressures, the Hong Kong time deposits were repriced. We also saw some balance sheet growth happening, because part of the weakness of the HIBOR was because of the strong Southbound connecting flows into Hong Kong and that immediately gave us the benefit to our deposit line. We have been also active in Markets Treasury. The benefit of that goes into Fee and other income. All in all, there are a number of areas in which we can pull levers to be very confident on our around $42 billion guidance for banking NII but, as always, we will be conservative, realistic, and if we out-perform, we out- perform.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
200,qa,5.0,,Kendra Yan,Analyst,CICC,"I have two questions. The first is about the non-interest income. I’ve seen that HSBC delivered quite strong non-interest income in both quarter one and quarter two, primarily driven by the wealth management FX and the capital markets-related business. I wonder how you see the sustainability of this momentum going forward. The second question is about the stablecoin, because there are several countries and areas that have introduced stablecoin-related regulations. How does HSBC view the cryptocurrency area? Do you have some reservations in this area, or will you maintain a cautious approach in this area?",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
201,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"On digitised means of payment, we have launched tokenised deposit services for our wholesale customers. It’s live in Hong Kong and Singapore. It will be live in September in the UK and in the Eurozone and then early in 2026, it’ll be live in a number of other countries, including the US, the UAE and others. This will allow our wholesale customers – and is already allowing our wholesale customers – to do cross-border transactions with their suppliers or the other counterparties on a real-time basis and on an ‘always on’, as in 24/7, basis. That service is live and is developing and we continue investing in it. It’s programmable and it basically leverages the blockchain technology. We’re very pleased with this development. Beyond what we already offer in terms of tokenised deposits, we are watching very closely the regulatory developments around stablecoin. We are very encouraged about Hong Kong, indeed, issuing regulation there. Obviously, the US, with the GENIUS bill, is publishing regulation there. What we will monitor, one, is that the regulation addresses all our regulatory- related concerns, such as financial crime, prudential and other risks. We will also monitor the issuers of stablecoin and their compliance with these regulations and then, subject to those, we will evaluate all potential banking services we can do with them or customers involved with these issuers. We expect to move at pace. With regards to other crypto, at this stage, we have no appetite to be involved in other kind of algorithmic or other non-pegged cryptocurrencies. As an asset class, we still do not have risk appetite to be involved in that space. With regards our non-NII, there are a few comments I want to make and I’ll hand over to Pam. It’s a very important area for us. It’s a very important investment area for us. Let me talk about first transaction banking. We have a leadership position. We’re a top two player in global transaction banking. In payments and FX and trade – we’re the trade bank – for seven or eight consecutive years, the largest trade bank. It’s an area of unique strength, unique expertise. It’s an area of continued investment, both in digital capabilities and customer servicing, and we continue to see this area as resiliently growing, as demonstrated by 5% growth in Q2, of which 4% growth was within trade itself. That resilient underlying growth is due to the fact that we continue deepening customer relationships, gaining market share and acquiring new customers through all our expertise and our investment. The second one I want to talk to is wealth – six consecutive quarters of double-digit growth. Our target there is to grow in the medium term at double-digit rates, but that could be volatile a quarter to quarter, based on market conditions. This is also an area of active investment with intent. Our footprint, our brand, our heritage in Asia and the Middle East in particular give us unique strength to be able to accelerate this growth and continue gaining market share, benefitting from the underlying growth in the market. We’ve demonstrated a number of initiatives that we’ve already rolled out, be it in Wealth Centres, relationship managers or technology capabilities, digital capabilities we’ve been rolling out to our customers. Last, but not least, Capital Markets and Advisory, our debt and equity trading – all of whom have benefited also from our focused investment and our capabilities to be more meaningful and relevant for our customers and deliver growth as we did also in Q2.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
202,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"We have been focusing on growing our Fee and other income. As Georges has said, it’s been a focus area and we’ve seen strong performance, albeit, in the last two quarters, there has been the tailwind of market conditions and it’s hard to predict when these transactional tailwinds will fade away. Nevertheless, if you look at the various parts that build up to this Fee and other income, FX was up 7% - a very strong position in FX. There’s a baseline that will always be a growth engine. Investment Distribution was up 24%. Private Banking was up 12%, and there are also other annuity revenues, which are like our net new invested assets, which are up $75 billion over the last four quarters, so not really helped just by tailwinds, and also, the insurance CSM balance is at record levels, and that’ll just drip into the P&L over time, so that’s also like an annuity. Now, there’s just one or two items which I would call one-offs or specifically volatile beyond the transactional tailwinds. One is the Argentina hyperinflation, which was the $200 million impact in Q2 of 2024. Obviously, it was not a repeat in Q2 of 2025, but with Argentina gone, that is not going to be again coming into the comparison. And the other was the $100 million related to Markets Treasury activity, and that will be volatile. It will change from quarter to quarter. So overall very comfortable with the core of the growth, with some moves from quarter to quarter.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
203,qa,6.0,,Joseph Dickerson,Analyst,Jefferies,"Just a simple follow-up on the Hong Kong CRE, which I think you’ve done a pretty good job of addressing. I guess what drove the timing of this charge, because some of the dynamics that you point out in the interim report you could have easily argued were there in Q4, so I guess what drove the timing of today versus Q4? And then, is there any way to gauge what you think the appropriate coverage level is because, clearly, I think you also had about 20 bps of credit risk migration in last year’s CET1 from this. I’m just trying to walk through the moving parts to dimension any further charges. Thanks.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
204,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"I’m going to make a couple of comments but ask Pam to address your question. The first one is to reiterate the fact that we are comfortable with our position on Hong Kong CRE. We’ve explained the area of specific focus, and we’ve captured the outlook for 2025 in our revised ECL target.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
205,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"So firstly, part of the charge, you said, is a model change, and the model changes happen periodically, and that’s only $100 million. The key thing that we look at every quarter and we looked at the last year-end as well, is valuations. Now, valuations is an ongoing process. You see the valuations in terms of orderly valuations, but the valuations also get impacted even on the performing book when you see some distressed valuations. And already, we had started considering distressed valuations as part of our ECL charge for the year-end by giving some probability for those distressed valuations, and this lag on a performing book, because the book is still performing on the valuations as it comes as part of our credit processes – we do a read-across to the book. Now, generally, the LTVs have remained strong, so just to say the LTVs which have gone higher than 70% is still a very small portion of the book, but while we are focused on this, we are, as in every quarter, looking at the rest of the book. The real challenge continues with the over-supply in the office space. Now, it’s not across everywhere the same. It depends upon the location of the office space; it depends upon the quality of the building. Has it been new, refurbed, or otherwise? So that’s the piece that we also then bear in mind when we look at the valuation shift, to say, ‘Is there any greater calibration or divergence from the kind of property, the use of property?’ And the overall liquidity in the market, in terms of actual transactions, has been relatively low.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
206,qa,7.0,,Gurpreet Singh Sahi,Analyst,Goldman Sachs,"I have two, please. The first is on FX. It’s good to see strong growth all across non-banking NII, but on FX, you called out good growth, but I wonder, we’ve seen some unusual currency volatility in the quarter; did that not lead us to generate above normal FX growth, and at 7%, would you call it above normal? So what were clients’ feedback? Were they churning portfolios more, hedging, etc, during the quarter, on FX? Because I see, Q on Q, also, it’s down. And then, on loan growth, we see some pick-up in the UK book, but then, in Hong Kong, China region, with the lower interest rates, are we seeing client demand come back in for loan growth, and how do we see the outlook there? Thank you.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
207,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Yes, FX has benefited from increased customer activity due to higher volatility. This is something that is difficult to forecast, but what is important to note is that it remains one of our core capabilities in transaction banking, and we remain one of the top players, I would say top two global players, in this space, and therefore, we do have a leadership market share in this space and capture client activity. It’s difficult to forecast what kind of volatility we may see going forward in Foreign Exchange, but we will continue being one of the main counterparties to support our customers’ hedging activities. On loan growth, I was actually particularly encouraged with the UK Commercial banking corporate loan growth. It’s early to call it a trend, $3.5 billion growth, but it is definitely a green shoot in this space where it has been subdued for many quarters now. So we have seen the UK credit book remain very resilient through the last few years, but we haven’t seen it grow, and hopefully, with more clarity about the UK and the tariffs related to the UK, we can see more investments taking through. The additional comment I would like to make about the UK specifically and then hand over to Pam is that we’re very encouraged by the UK having also moved at pace in their trade negotiations with trade agreements now concluded with the US, with the EU, since Brexit, and then more recently with India, which is a historic trade deal where we have a very vibrant business corridor going on between the UK and India. And we’re frankly very, very excited about supporting our customers along this corridor to realise the benefits in their businesses.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
208,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"So, just to make a comment on FX, of course there’s a transactional nature to FX, but we are very engaged with our customers, and we have been capturing flows well, and at the back of that, we are accelerating our investment in this business to grow medium term so that we can be best positioned to support our customers. From a loan growth perspective, so in Q1, we saw growth in Asia, ex Hong Kong, China. And that’s been stable, but it’s moving along, and obviously, Q2, given some of the tariffs news, people were slower in terms of making their decisions. In the UK, our growth was good, but also, our focus was very much across sectors which were growing, so whether it’s in the infrastructure space and so on. So we were very focused, and that held up well. We are doing the same engagement level on our customers across the globe, and from a growth perspective, at the back of the interest rates coming down, the other factor which is very important, and we’ve called it out before, is macro uncertainty. So, when this macro uncertainty continues, the capex decisions are delayed. However, from a working capital, we see some early engagement where people are looking at how they shift and change some of their business models, and so on. What I do want to say is that, overall, where we have good benefits still coming through from our NII line is our deposit base, which is, as I’ve called out, up $83 billion year on year, so that stays a very strong component, as part of our NII business. And I would say, from an FX perspective, the other thing to bear in mind is we’re seeing strong flows into Hong Kong through the depressed HIBOR, so that is another factor to balance overall in our outlook.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
209,qa,8.0,,Katherine Lei,Analyst,JP Morgan,"I have three questions. The first is that I would want to ask about what are the outstanding parts of the threshold deduction related to the BoCom, if there is further impairment on BoCom? If there’s further impairment on BoCom, what would the amount be in order for that future impairment to have an impact on your CET1 ratios and share buyback and EPS, and so forth? Number two is related to the $0.6 billion of restructuring-related costs. What portion of it is in the material notable items, i.e. what I mean is what portion of the $0.6 billion has no impact on DPS, and what portion of it may have an impact on DPS? And then, the last question is for Georges - on tokenised deposits. So may I know, for this tokenised deposit, is it only for HSBC clients or also available for HSBC’s clients’ clients? Is that on public chains, i.e. can clients basically use this tokenised deposit to transact crypto assets? So say, for example, if they want to trade Bitcoin or other crypto assets, can they use this tokenised deposit to facilitate that? Thank you.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,analyst
210,qa,,1.0,Georges Elhedery,management,HSBC,"Let me then answer your third question; I’ll ask Pam to address the first two. So, today, this is available to HSBC’s clients and any whitelisted clients’ clients, or clients’ counterparties, but ultimately, they need to go through the HSBC standards for know your client, financial crime checks, among other kinds of checks. So the capabilities will be extended, but will be expanded in a way where we remain very comfortable with the KYC considerations to be able to onboard them as clients or future clients. We are looking, obviously, at stablecoin developments. We believe it is still early to understand how some of these stablecoin issuers are able to KYC the wider client base. Some of them are, but obviously, the regulations are going to dictate, for those who will be effectively whitelisted, what these requirements are, and we will evaluate accordingly over the next few weeks and months as this develops. Your first question is related to BoCom, and your second question is related to the restructuring- related costs and whether they will be treated as notable or materially notable. Pam will address both, but let me say one thing about BoCom is we have ample room for any potential future impairments, whether they happen or not, before this even comes near affecting CET1 or CET1 ratio or our distribution capabilities.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
211,qa,,2.0,Pam Kaur,management,HSBC,"We have $14 billion of threshold deductions - that’s slide 33 of the deck. And on slide 28, we give you more details on BoCom, including the market value in the footnote, which is at $13 billion. So, as Georges says, even if there was an impairment to market value, it will have no material impact on CET1. And in terms of restructuring costs, they are a notable item, but they’re not a material notable item for the dividend.",2025,Q2,False,250731-2q-interim-results-2025-presentation-to-investors-and-analysts-transcript.pdf,
